- **[About](<About.md>):** __Directory Listing for Things Discussed in Yak [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>) Discord channel__
- **[Chief Page Wrangler](<Chief Page Wrangler.md>):** [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)
    - **[Additional Page Wranglers](<Additional Page Wranglers.md>):** [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) | [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>)
- **[Created](<Created.md>):** [May 9th, 2020](<May 9th, 2020.md>) by [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)
- **[Last Updated](<Last Updated.md>):** [January 3rd, 2021](<January 3rd, 2021.md>) by [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
- **[Last Gardened](<Last Gardened.md>):** 
    - [November 16th, 2020](<November 16th, 2020.md>) by [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>)
    - [November 9th, 2020](<November 9th, 2020.md>) by [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>)
        - __reversed the order of the chat notes so that the newest is on top ðŸ‘‡
suggest most recent note left untwirled for easy review to visitors__
- 
- ## Lists/Docs [needsupdate](<needsupdate.md>)
    - [Project Launch Checklist](<Project Launch Checklist.md>)
    - [Things We Need](<Things We Need.md>)
    - [Internal Volunteer Opportunities](<Internal Volunteer Opportunities.md>)
    - [Onboarding for New Yaks](<Onboarding for New Yaks.md>)
    - [IT Infrastructure](<IT Infrastructure.md>)
- ## Upcoming chat topics [needsupdate](<needsupdate.md>)
    - Scheduled
    - Unscheduled
        - Marketing w/ [Alex Wagner](<Alex Wagner.md>) and others
    - ### Chat topics Icebox
        - Experiment with diff chat tools 
            - Hopin
            - Ice-breaker.video 
        - Amorphous organizations article from [Vaughn Tan](<Vaughn Tan.md>)
        - ((2jplEZUYM))
        - 
- ## Infrastructure Chat Notes
    - Infrastructure Chat 36 [January 24th, 2021](<January 24th, 2021.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
        - **Agenda**
            1. [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) allowing anybody to set up events. we can use calendly to allow anybody to set up an event which will send reminders to all and can also be rescheduled, etc.
        - **Meeting Notes**
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) wants to get feedback on Calendly for launch.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) thinks that things looks good, but would strip out the "Calendly standard" info from the Discord announcements in `[events](<events.md>)`
                    - Basically, everything before the "Location" line.
                    - The "Please share anything that will help prepare for our meeting" prefix.
                    - The "Need to make changes to this event" line and everything after (in particular, the cancel/reschedule links).
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) agrees.
            - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) is still disengaged, but is hopeful that maybe re-engagement with YC projects will happen next week. Aiming for a ~4hr/week time commitment moving forward.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks that we need to get more people involved with the website and other infrastructure projects.
    - Infrastructure Chat 35 [January 10th, 2021](<January 10th, 2021.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
        - **[location](<location.md>):** https://meet.google.com/zfc-qhjy-oey
        - **Meeting Notes**
            - Infrastructure calls seems to be just [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) and [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) now...
            - We really need to make things more lively... This is why Calendly is important.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) will bump this up for the next thing they do today (after finishing up with the channels).
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) doesn't feel like they're in much of a troubleshooting headspace right now, unfortunately.
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks we need a better process for getting buy-in around things.
                - All [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) can think of is posting something in `[announcements](<announcements.md>)`, but neither [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) nor [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) like this idea.
                - The goal here is not just feedback, but __ownership__ -- a sense of "this is mine".
                    - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>): "The Yak Collective is a place for doing, not a place for believing".
                - For example, how do we make [Paul Sas](<Paul Sas.md>)'s "ask me anything" happen?
                - What is something that makes people want to spend their free time on the Yak Collective?
                    - One issue: Someone spending a time writing a story doesn't look very active on Discord, even if they're spending a lot of time doing YC-related activities.
                    - Another example: Coworking Cafe is just the same 10-ish people...
                    - We used to have some channels that were more member/project oriented ("give feedback on my slide deck"), but these have faded.
                        - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks that the reason this hasn't worked so well is that we haven't had wranglers.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) sees YC as project-oriented. [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>)'s more interested in discussions.
                    - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)'s not sure the project-based model is proving sustainable.
                    - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) points out that projects __are__ good for sustaining smaller communities.
                    - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)'s not sure that the smaller communities are sustainable without a broader pool of engaged-ish people on Discord (or wherever) to draw from.
    - Infrastructure Chat 34 [January 3rd, 2021](<January 3rd, 2021.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
        - **[location](<location.md>):** https://meet.google.com/zfc-qhjy-oey
        - **Agenda**
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) Allowing anybody to set up events. We can use Calendly to allow anybody to set up an event which will send reminders to all and can also be rescheduled, etc.
        - **Meeting Notes**
            - [Grigori Milov](<Grigori Milov.md>) is concerned that the YC is too top-down.
                - [Hugo Macedo](<Hugo Macedo.md>) suggested we use Calendly, since that would allow for anyone to set up a meeting, but still restrict editing to the meeting creator.
                - Calendly hooks into Google Calendar, and allows meetings to be scheduled/rescheduled within meeting windows (so that they don't conflict).
                    - Meeting topics can be set, but creator name is present.
                - [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) isn't sure what this brings to our existing setup.
                    - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) points out that this allows us to graft event-level permissions into Google Calendar.
                    - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) thinks that this does feel more consistent with our philosophy.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) will set this up next weekend (negative check-off in the infrastructure channel).
            - [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) wants to get people involved in Yak Map based discussions.
                - What's the best way to get people involved?
                - Maybe just reach out by DM initially?
                - The trick is to see where things go, as it's hard to predict where conversations will go.
                - Is there a way to integrate this into onboarding?
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) is reluctant to integrate this initially, but rather introduce people after they've been fully onboarded.
                    - [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) is looking for something like the onboarding process under discussion, but for existing members.
                    - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks we need some use-cases initially, and then we can riff off of people's initial (manual) experiences.
                    - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) wonders what the infrastructure would look like long-term.
                        - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks that a bot hooked into Knack would be the best direction.
                        - [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) points out that we can also use recent channel data on Discord.
                - [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) is thinking about creating a pseudo-project page on Roam.
                    - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks that a project proposal is maybe too formal -- just do conversations.
                        - [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) thinks it's important to have someone establish some initial flows.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) thinks that the biggest infrastructure thing we can do right now to move this forward is helping to QA Knack.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) will look into turning the Yak Map integration into an iframe widget + Git submodule.
    - Infrastructure Chat 33 [December 27th, 2020](<December 27th, 2020.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>)
        - **[location](<location.md>):** https://meet.google.com/zfc-qhjy-oey
        - **Agenda**
            1. [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) Discuss/finalize discord channel lifecycle.
            2. [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) Newsletter infrastructure
            3. ~~Discuss UI for projects bot a bit more.~~
        - **Meeting Notes**
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) thinks we should group project channels by state.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) will finalize the [Discord Channel Lifecycle and Organization](<Discord Channel Lifecycle and Organization.md>) proposal and then give people a one-week negative check-off
            - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) Newsletter gets put together every other Wednesdays
                - Content depends on what's available right now.
                - Ideally, we'd be describing what's happening within YC
                    - What projects are where?
                    - What gigs are available?
                    - Who needs help?
                - The idea is to become a bit of a view into what the YC needs right now.
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) We need to gather information, and then get it to Praful.
                - There's bots already for help wanted, gigs, and a newsletter bot.
                - We don't have a project summary/update bot.
                - At the moment, most of our project management happens in Roam, but there's no good API.
                - We could DM people every couple of weeks right now.
                - There's also the agenda bots.
                    - Marketing and Infrastructure use the agenda bot the most.
            - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) Can I get help on the bots?
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) Just DM `$help` to `gigayak`.
                    - Discord has slash commands, but the Python library Maier's using doesn't support these yet.
                    - There may be a way to integrate things, but Maier just learned about this recently.
            - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) `$agendalist` and `$giglist` should be useful.
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) We need to start normalizing people using these bots. Maybe we can push this through the newsletter?
                - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) Yes.
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) The idea is that "gigs" pay, while "help wanted" are more volunteer-ish opportunities within YC.
                - Venkat doesn't see gigs is a big thing.
            - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) When I talk to people, they're much more interested in using YC to find gigs and extend their work by leveraging YC resources.
            - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) The problem seems to be popularizing the newsletter and gig bots.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) I think we need to just keep publicly demonstrating this ourselves.
            - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) will follow up with contributors from __Astonishing Stories__ and __Future Frontiers__ about RSS feeds.
            - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) Gigs, help wanted, upcoming events, newletter items list will be the most useful
                - Longer term, if we have a bot that can ping project managers for updates, that would be useful.
            - Newsletter options: Substack, Ghost, Buttondown
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) Buttondown has a read/write API so we can programmatically build newsletters, but that's $29/month.
                    - Buttondown also allows us to add a "subscribe to our newsletter" box to the website.
                    - If we're going to self-host, we should steer away from self-hosting.
                - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>) Folks would prefer a Google Doc. But Buttondown looks like it has __really__ good analytics -- better than Substack or Ghost.
                    - Praful will play around with Ghost and Buttondown, see if it makes sense for us to move.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) We can add a command to the relevant bots to dump information to a Google Doc and then provide a link back.
    - Infrastructure Chat 32 [December 20th, 2020](<December 20th, 2020.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Jordan Peacock](<Jordan Peacock.md>) [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
        - **[location](<location.md>):** https://meet.google.com/zfc-qhjy-oey
        - **Agenda**
            1. [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) Discuss/Finalize the [Discord Channel Lifecycle and Organization](<Discord Channel Lifecycle and Organization.md>) proposal.
        - **Meeting Notes**
            - Maybe we want to use something that mirrors [Jordan's channels role](https://www.notion.so/Yak-Collective-Reaction-Roles-09be0f1e7e4f492ba1cf5604a600c31d)?
                - So, one idea is just to bind everything to roles.
                - If these roles show/hide channels, then the internal/external breakdown isn't as relevant.
            - Three ways to maybe interact with projects:
                - Jordan's emoji describer
                - Subscribe to channels directly
                - Some kind of bot that looks at channels under "Internal|External Projects" and then replies with stats, descriptions, etc.
            - Admins have access to carl.gg using their Discord credentials
                - Jordan thinks we should be able to implement all of our onboarding ideas using carl.gg
            - We should put Jordan's `[subscribe-projects](<subscribe-projects.md>)` channel in "Plaza"
            - Example onboarding: https://discord.com/invite/tUNk5huE
            - Nathan wonders if we can't just have a "concierge yak" (really, yak_shepherd) open a DM immediately when someone joins, and then handle onboarding and offer to let people join projects.
            - Maier suggests that maybe each project should be its own message in `[subscribe-projects](<subscribe-projects.md>)`, with reactions to indicate subscribe/unsubscribe.
                - Jordan thinks that this is doable.
            - Proposal changes:
                - Leave system messages on, but disable joins
                - Move system messages to `[announcements](<announcements.md>)`
                - Archive `[general](<general.md>)`
                - Update the proposal to just list projects under "Projects"
                    - Hide channels if you don't have a role
    - infrastructure chat 31 [December 13th, 2020](<December 13th, 2020.md>)
        - **[11:30](<11:30.md>):** [Yak Collective](<Yak Collective.md>) infrastructure call [Meetings](<Meetings.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Erik Sandberg](<Erik Sandberg.md>) [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)
        - **[location](<location.md>):** https://meet.google.com/zfc-qhjy-oey
        - **Agenda**
            1. Discussion of consistent open-source licensing policy for Yak Collective content (member contributed and 3rd party used).
            2. Financial governance/spending process.
        - **Meeting Notes**
            - Maier's going to talk to Praful about how to apply bots to the newsletter.
            - Praful and Maier are also thinking through Tom Critchlow's "thinking in public".
            - Nathan need to fix the infrastructure diagram: The "Calendar Yak" is using the Google Calendar API, rather than Gmail
            - Maier thinks that project licensing is more of a governance issue.
                - There's two issues here... Entire projects vs. individual content.
            - Maier is fond of MIT licensing for code. Nathan agrees.
            - We probably need to have per-project licensing.
                - Should be easy enough to include a licensing attribute to pages/projects on the Yak Collective website
                    - We should probably also add a licensing field to the Yak Collective project template in Roam
                - We should ping Discord about whether the current agenda items make sense for the "infrastructure" channel
                    - Darren points out that governance should make a decision, and then infrastructure should implement
            - Darren wonders how we want to run an eCommerce store.
                - Nathan has experience with Shopify and thinks that we should use something like this rather than integrating anything into the website.
                - Erik points out that you need a business account to use Shopify, so there's governance issues here too.
                - Maier points out that Shreeda was asking if it makes sense to run a Kickstarter for Venkat's "quadrology" card game idea.
                    - Darren had a similar idea, but was thinking of running it through their own personal LLC.
                    - Erik seems a little wary about doing this without some sort of more formal bank account structure, etc.
                - Maier wonders if we can be more of a "storefront" where individual projects were hosted.
                - Nathan thinks that there are two parts to what we're thinking of:
                    - Website implementation. Widget + some front matter.
                    - Accounting. Probably needs to be a Google Sheet, rather than done in Roam.
                - Erik points out that we need to think through expectations (more governance). There may be automation/APIs we could leverage here. Lots of "what do the users need" kind of questions.
            - Lots of conversation about a project involving creating an [Oblique Strategies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oblique_Strategies)-like card game
    - infrastructure chat 30 [December 6th, 2020](<December 6th, 2020.md>)
        - #[YC Annual Meeting 2020](<YC Annual Meeting 2020.md>)
        - not everyone has agreed speak (or even knows?)
        - two project proposals
            - Venkat and Paul (Venkat will ping )
        - Venkat: don't want to push too much engagement - want it to be organic
        - darren - big picture talk, will back fill
        - analytics
            - nathan - analytics can pull 
                - screenshare google analytics
            - newsletter group was ing at analytics
            - Hugo: marketing group also reviewed analytics - looked at impact of launches
        - screenshare of the website - will be apparent where there is activity/not.
        - darren MC - if speaker isn't there say 1 minute overview.
        - Zoom, max 100 participants 
        - Previous discord townhall had 90 participants
        - We now have 693 Discord users. Maybe 10% is minimally active/engaged. 
        - Vibe: don't pump up/ low key showcasing of what's organically happening -> attract serious interested yaks
        - New yak - opportunities to engage
            - Final frontiers slides
            - copywriting
            - bot
        - Launch bots as a project
            - create a page
            - artwork for bot icons
            - bot personalities
            - allow other members to make bots
    - infrastructure chat 29 [November 29th, 2020](<November 29th, 2020.md>)
        - #[YC Annual Meeting 2020](<YC Annual Meeting 2020.md>)
        - #[IT Infrastructure](<IT Infrastructure.md>)
        - Praful - newsletter - would use something from google doc that can be copy & paste
    - infrastructure chat 28 [November 22nd, 2020](<November 22nd, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)'s notes
            - discord proposal
                - comments were added needed
                - darren to consolidate, send message + pin for vote
            - state of the union presentation
                - darren - big picture overview
                - nathan - technical overview of website + knack
                - maier - automation 
            - lock on final frontiers format. Nathan wants to clean up to make maintainable (lock formats...will have 3 formats then) 
                - final fronteirs should be done by the 8th 
            - Nathan get docs updated is a priority
            - bots
                - Venkatesh asked for two functions
                - add agenda bot 
                - yak_scraper
                    - $help  â€” prints list of commands available
                    - $howto  - can set instructions for a given topic 
                    - $givemecsv -  generates csv of member data with roles and ID - using for yakmap
                    - $activity N (code) / `$activity 15 code` -  activity of channel - total messages, weekly message + mentions
                    - $noise `$noise 15 20`-  table of activity of members last 15 days and 20 top members
                - gigayak
                    - $gighelp
                        - $giglist
                    - there's permission based 
                    - $agendahelp
                    - $projhelp
                        - $projllist
                        - $proj+1 (reason)
            - help wanted?
                - be more liberal with posting announcements
                - bot + post in announcements ? 
            - community server? 
                - seems promising. would need to have guideline
                - proposal
        - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)'s notes
            - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Hershil Patel](<Hershil Patel.md>)
            - I'm wondering if we had a particular format we wanted to use for the general meeting.
                - Darren will go over the infrastructure map.
                - I will talk about the website, how it's going, the movement to Knack.
                - Maier will talk about automation.
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>): Automation!
                - Current bots (all have a `$help` function)
                    - `yak_scraper` is a general helper robot. Kinda a swiss army knife.
                        - Gives help to new members
                        - Lists new members
                        - Lists channel activity
                        - Lists member activity
                        - Helps yaks meet each other by finding intro messages
                    - `gigayak` is a helper robot for `yak_scraper`
                        - Handles adding and dropping open gigs
                        - Also handles adding agenda items __per channel__
                        - Also handles project upvoting, etc.
                - Darren suggests that we could also add "agenda items" to the newsletter through a bot.
                    - Maier will follow up with Praful about the Newsletter.
                - Maybe we should also have a "help wanted" bot for internal projects that could use assistance?
                    - General consensus seems to be that a help wanted bot may be useful.
                - Darren thinks that the newsletter may become just a compilation of bot output.
                - Nathan: Everyone on this call, and maybe some of our higher-volume contributors, should publicly use these bots. Normalize/model them.
            - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>): Do we want to be a community server?
                - [Community servers](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360047132851-Enabling-Your-Community-Server) require us to explicitly add moderators, community guidelines, etc.
                - There's an analytics feature we get if we turn into this.
                - Nathan: I know that there have been some push-back around explicit guidelines.
                - Darren: We can probably just cut-and-paste some kind of standard-ish open source "human decency" guidelines.
                - Maier: There's no call to action right now.
                    - Darren: I'll post something.
            - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>): Do we want to talk about Venkat's project proposal?
                - Maier: I think that this is the reason for the bots.
            - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) will take over shepherding [the channel proposal](https://roamresearch.com/#/app/ArtOfGig/page/0EQra2bCr) from [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>).
    - infrastructure chat 27 [November 15th, 2020](<November 15th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - Darren's notes
            - change meeting time?
            - web updates
                - [Palash](<Palash.md>) - set up... documentation isn't great, but community comments are great.
                - potential of switching to Gatsby. Hugo - templating is faster than Liquid. 
                - Gatsby block quotes
                - Bandwidth-constrained experience of our website 
                - Knack for 3rd party auth 
            - yak scraper
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) added message and mention aggregation by week 
                - $activity 60 code
        - Nathan's notes
            - [Palash](<Palash.md>) is porting the site to Gatsby!
                - The Gatsby documents are __really__ bad.
                - A lot of community problems. But a __big__, and a good community.
                - Can render MDX components in Netlify CMS.
                - Palash is going to reimplement the existing site in Gatsby.
                - NPM packages can be imported into Gatsby during build time, as plugins. So, builds can make whatever API calls we need.
                - Palash thinks that components that animate as one scrolls is easy to implement in Gatsby. [Sachin Benny](<Sachin Benny.md>) should be excited about this.
                - Palash is taking a couple of days off, and then needs to figure out some build problems. Should have a more concrete demo in 1 - 2 weeks.
                - Current fork: https://goofy-agnesi-5c224c.netlify.app/
                - On performance: Some blocking is actually good, because it can give resources time to load.
                - There's a CSS property called `font-display` that will block the browser on load.
                    - https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/f/font-display/
                - What's the right priority here?
                    - Nathan thinks: Get a POC working, then get all the functionality working, then add in nice editing.
                        - We should be thinking about file structure during the first two phases.
                - Palash will be looking at alternate CMSes as well, but Netlify CMS has the capability to render MDX widgets, and is the right price.
                    - Maier: If we can use Discord as our central authentication.
                    - Palash: If we're interested in self-hosted, [Strapi](https://strapi.io/) is good
                - Maier: Is there an ability to have a drag-and-drop interface in Netlify CMS?
                    - Palash: Netlify is building something, but it's not ready yet.
                - Maier: 25% - 35% of our website access is mobile.
            - Changing times (Maier/Darren)
                - There's a 13.5 hour difference between call participants, but Palash's schedule is shifting, so no change to times right now...
                - We should revisit this in the January time frame.
            - Channel usage tool (Maier)
                - `yak_scraper` now gives channel activity information
                - Also shows how many messages and mentions per week
                    - The idea is that channels where people mention each other more are more social.
                - Nathan: We should have some sort of notification that "`yak_scraper` is working"
                    - Maier: We can send a "typing" notification
                - Maier: We definitely need to move forward with some kind of channel archiving/lifecycle proposal
                - Maier: Some of these channels should really be Roam pages
                    - Nathan: It would be great if we had an easier way to share Roam links
                    - Maier: I have a (private) extension that unfurls links using my server
                        - https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ruf/ahjankgnkfhcpemcahifhalkfapojekc
                - ^^Nathan: I will repost my simplify/lifecycle proposal.^^
                    - [Discord Channel Lifecycle and Organization](<Discord Channel Lifecycle and Organization.md>)
            - Discord map [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>)
                - Maier: I'd really like a visual map of the Discord server, but we should have a metaphor.
                    - Maybe make it dynamic using the data from `yak_scraper`.
                - ^^Maier: Can [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) and [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) think of visual metaphors?^^
    - infrastructure chat 26 [November 8th, 2020](<November 8th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)'s notes
            - knack
                - switch snowflake IDs to string.. float conversion error? 
            - channels
                - promoting the probationary channels
                    - criteria
                        - two week probationary period  
                        - minimum viable activity 
                            - 1 message/day? 
                            - 10 messages/week ? 
                - deleting channel
                    - 
                - archive channel
                    - remove posting from archive
                    - how do we resurrect a channel? 
                - between section 
                    - public plaza
                        - post events to general? 
                    - coworking-cafe - is a commitment buddy 
                - channel map
                    - discord bot - explain what each channel does
                    - channel tagging
                    - keyword mapping
            - types of members
                - subset on knack
                - subset on website 
                - subset never introduced themselves 
                - how do we make a decision?
            - testing/deployment 
                - post on discord, ask for feedback, as long as no one hates it 
                - Roam checklist 
            - yak map
        - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) notes
            - Channels (Darren)
                - Darren: Provisional channels are going well. Should we promote them?
                - Maier: How are channels normally handled?
                - Darren: We have more channels, and more specific channels, than more. Our users are also generally less sophisticated.
                - Maier: I would wait two week, and then promote things that are still active.
                - Darren: Any other criteria? One post per day?
                - Nathan: Sometimes channels can skip a day. I'd do something more like 5 - 10 a week.
                - Maier: We should have a dashboard (posts per day, new people, etc.), and then make a decision.
                - Nathan: I'd go to for something simpler with a defined lifecycle.
                - Darren: Mix probationary and archive? Like levels?
                - Maier: I don't want to mix the babies and dying channels.
                - Nathan: What about resurrected channels?
                - Maier: No opinions.
                - Darren: I can write some proposed criteria.
                - Nathan: I can write up a lifecycle proposal. We should coordinate.
                - Darren: General is pretty dead.
                - Nathan: Why don't we post Events in General?
                - Darren: No reason.
                - Maier: We should have a (text) map of channels.
                - Vinay: I like this idea. Can this maybe be combined with the Yak Map? This might be too complicated.
                - Maier: We are building a capability to pre-launch channel recommendations. We can also output a list of active channels (once we start monitoring channels). We could also have a tool that looks for keywords.
                - Vinay: We definitely need some new tools. Maybe we could prioritize this list?
                - Nathan: Is there a way to tag channels?
                - Maier: We'd need to write a custom system to do this. But I'd recommend we just build this "tag/word cloud" automatically.
                - Nathan: This goes back to an idea we've periodically kicked around. "Here's the top 5 most active channels this past week," etc. I think there are three points here:
                    - When do we archive/promote channels?
                    - How do we better organize/consolidate channels?
                    - How do we increase channel discoverability?
                - Vinay: I think discoverability is very connected to promotion and archiving.
            - Types of members (Maier)
                - Maier: Right now we have several types of members, but we need better definitions. Then we need to map these levels to who __can__ be in Vinay's map.
                    - Not members
                    - Yaks
                    - Made yaks
                    - Kicked out (because they haven't done anything)
                - Nathan: I don't have opinions.
                - Maier: We just someone to make a decision. These are the types, these are the people on the website, these are the people in the Yak Map. (Also, I don't think we're actually kicking people off right now.)
                - Vinay: I think it goes...
                    - Yaks (everyone in Discord)
                    - Active yaks (people with an intro, can be in Network Map)
                    - Made yak (public project participation, on website, can be in Network Map)
                    - Yak shaver (admin people)
                - Vinay: Just post a suggestion in Infrastructure.
                - Nathan: I will just write up something.
            - Testing and deployment (Maier)
                - Maier: What is our standard for launching things?
                - Nathan: I just ping the infrastructure channel a few days to a week ahead of time.
                - Maier: We need some kind of semi-official second pair of eyes.
                - Vinay: You should write something up, and send it to Nathan. We probably need one or more QA people, maybe someone who is outside of the infrastructure group, or at least someone who's more of a "normal" user.
                - Nathan: We already have a semi-formal project review process.
                - Maier: So, we should have a Roam page for every infrastructure project. We'd need a checklist for each release with a formal sign-off (doesn't need to be the same reviewer/QA person as listed on the Roam page).
                - Nathan: So, there needs to be a checklist for each project, but it won't necessarily be the same checklist for each project. I don't want to write this, but Maier's right.
                - Vinay: I think checklists already exist.
                - Nathan: Whoever runs the project should write up the page. I will roll mine in with the rest of the documentation updates, so I might be late to the party.
            - Update on the Network Map (Vinay)
                - Vinay: Going to add some simple documentation + a guide on how to use. Then do a simple demo for people, and then next week have a discussion on this call about how best to integrate this into the website.
                - Nathan: Are changes just JavaScript + JSON, or does it involve HTML changes?
                - Vinay: Using a plug-in to generate things. Just JSON changes.
                - Maier: We could do this with an iframe?
                - Nathan: Theoretically, yes, but I'd rather not if we don't have to.
                - Vinay: Version 1.0 is ready, we just need to get people's impressions now, and see if this is worthwhile to folks. Focused on this in the next month.
                - Nathan: I'll drop in the new JSON.
    - infrastructure chat 25 [November 1st, 2020](<November 1st, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - Notes by [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)
            - state of yak meeting
                - date and time 
                    - date - do a doodle - first couple weeks in Dec
                    - time probably around 8-9 AM PST?
                - general townhall, opportunity to reset state 
                - need commitment for project leads to present for 3-4 minutes 
                    - audit the [Yak Collective State of the Union](<Yak Collective State of the Union.md>)
                - prompts for leads
                    - update
                    - what help they needed
                - 70-80 people showed up at the first townhall after the launch 
                - outreach
                    - newsletter
                    - ribbonfarm blog post on yak collective
                - ~~discord or~~ zoom 
            - AMA chats 
                - content 
                - focus on something interesting they are doing - that they have a public facing footprint
                - 80% indie 20% yak collective 
                - website/ newsletter 
                - AMA guest
                    - Venkat volunteers
                - look into [Ben Mosior](<Ben Mosior.md>)'s project when he interviewed 
                - Marketing also talked about "how we built this" 
                - Twitch stream?
                    - Automation video 
            - newsletter
                - Newsletter needs to be sent.
                - 1X week - Astonishing Stories. Tile is on web, but newsletter didn't go out. 
                - Praful is the only one working on it atm and was busy with work yesterday.
            - discord bot
                - server $5-10 mo 
                - capabilities we can see user behaviors and have event triggers
                - future - knack and roam API
            - web
                - who has insight into the web infrastructure?
                    - it's dispersed
                    - documentation
            - discord mgmt
                - new projects 
                    - collaborations was doing it
                - experimental category
                    - make it easy to create/destroy channels in that category
        - Notes by [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
            - [Yak Collective State of the Union](<Yak Collective State of the Union.md>)
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
                    - Venkat thinks we should do something at the end of the year
                    - Maybe do a Doodle to identify a couple of good dates in December
                    - Opportunity to reset state
                    - What's everyone's projects? General updates?
                    - We need:
                        - A date
                        - A commitment from people leading projects to do a presentation/pitch
                            - What have we been doing?
                            - What do we need for support?
                            - What opportunities?
                    - Jenna's been maintaining a Kanban board of various projects
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) Would this be a format that other people could use?
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) This would be more like a general meeting. Something high enough stakes to get everyone excited. We should do something like this once a year.
                    - [ ] I need to take a look at Jenna's project Kanban board
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) We need to cover the whole infrastructure map.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) More people seem to be engaged in infrastructure, but this is inward looking
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
                    - We should have all projects present. If someone doesn't present, it's not happening
                    - Half "what's happening", half "open ended discussion about what we need"
                    - Venkat will organize
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) How long? Two or three hours?
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) That would be ambitious. __Maybe__ two hours with 12 people presenting
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
                    - We should advertise this on the newsletter. Will also advertise on Ribbonfarm.
                    - This will be an open meeting. No need to be a member.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) I'd suggest using Zoom -- Discord doesn't seem to work well for large meetings.
            - AMA format/feedback (Darren)
                - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) Do we want more interactive activities? This might give us more fodder for content.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) I like this idea. We could have AMAs for individual Yak Collective members.
                - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)
                    - The newsletter folks originally were prompting for more content.
                    - We could go back to the project leads, we could do random folks.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) Internally-facing content is boring for outsiders. We should focus on externally-facing content.
                - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) The idea would be to focus on folks' indie background.
                    - If this seems worthwhile, Darren will run.
                    - More worthwhile if we can push content into the newsletter, etc.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) There was an idea in the marketing channel -- "how did we build this?"
                    - Focus on practical outcomes. What makes our prospective clients interested in us?
                    - Sort of a "real stories" from the trenches things. Less "what can I do", and more "here's how I did X"
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) Have we coordinated with the newsletter folks?
                - [Sachin Benny](<Sachin Benny.md>) Right now, only Praful is working on this.
                    - ^^(Seems like the newsletter folks may need some help)^^
                - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) I will reach out
            - Prototype shepherd bot (Maier)
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>)
                    - The shepherd robot is currently in a [private repo](https://github.com/The-Yak-Collective/onboarding_robot) until we're confident in our security model.
                    - Robot runs on a server that Maier maintains. This allows for the robots to run and respond continuously.
                    - People can work on robots without logging onto the server -- there's a script that pushes new/updated robots to the server.
                    - Right now we have one robot, which pulls data for the `yak_scraper` -- Discord UID, join date, etc.
                    - Discord robots are easy -- generate a key, and then Discord will push events to the robot's web hook.
                    - If you write `$hello`, the robot will answer.
                    - Only Maier can kill the robot right now.
                    - There are options for more sophisticated commands.
                        - We could talk to Knack, the Roam API.
                        - Soon, it should show calendar reminders.
                        - Can potentially send project updates.
                    - The "shepherd' robot keeps track of new yaks via states. When a yak enters a state, a specified internal function is run.
                        - Currently, watches for introductions and promotes people who've done this into full yaks. It then sends a thank-you DM.
                        - If you don't send an introduction, it reminds you periodically.
                        - If you haven't posted an introduction in 7 days, the shepherd kicks you out o the server.
                        - Additional onboarding logic can be fairly easily added when/if we decide to do this.
                    - Yaks can be in multiple states -- for example, running a project, and also still receiving introductory turorials.
                    - Maier can provide fuller tutorials for folks who want to extend this.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
                    - Venkat wants to zero out finances by the end of the year, so we can definitely pay for this server.
                    - How many people actually understand the infrastructure?
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>)
                    - We should move the server over to the Yak Collective robot.
                    - In general, we're trying to document things so that people can pick things up, but also to build user-friendly "APIs" for less technical folks.
                - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
                    - We have a general problem in that nobody really has their head around all of our infrastructure.
                    - Documentation in Roam is being kept up-to-date as well as possible, but is known to have missing/inaccurate bits.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) Long-term, custom infrastructure has a better chance of surviving when exposed as open source projects
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) There should always be multiple people who knows what's going on for a given project
            - Proto-project channels (Maier)
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>)
                    - Projects need channels before they're projects -- a place where people can discuss whether they __want__ an idea to become a project
                    - Current channel policy doesn't seem to work well
                    - Maybe we want an "embryonic channels" group
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
                    - The "Collaborations" channel is supposed to serve this function, but it's not that clear. We should clean this up.
                    - We __do__ have an "infrastructure" channel
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) A single channel may not be good -- people need a space to talk.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) We should have an "experimental" category with a really low create/destroy threshold.
                - [Grigori Milov](<Grigori Milov.md>)
                    - The "pie slices" folks seem to have already nucleated, and there's a request in create/destroy channels already.
                    - Maybe we should just let people figure out how to coordinate, rather than perscribing something.
                - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) We should do a sweep of all channels... We kind of have too many right now.
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
                    - We need to prevent channel proliferation.
                    - Maybe require a sandbox channel. Keep things open.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) New category for experimental channels, with "pie slicing" the first one.
                - [Grigori Milov](<Grigori Milov.md>) Agreed.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) will set up a new category ("probationary channels" or some such)
                - [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>) Maybe we should put potentially dead channels there?
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) I can grab channel stats with the website
                - [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) That would be something cool to see on the website.
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) I have something like this already, but would need to be adapted for the website.
    - Infrastructure Chat 24 [October 25th, 2020](<October 25th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - Attendees: [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) [Sachin Benny](<Sachin Benny.md>) [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) [Paul Sas](<Paul Sas.md>) [Kacper Wikiel](<Kacper Wikiel.md>)
        - Walked through website changes related to [Astonishing Stories](<Astonishing Stories.md>)
            - These are temporary -- [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) is working on a new "widgetized" back end. Aiming to go live on [October 30th, 2020](<October 30th, 2020.md>)
                - Project headers, Google slide shows, lists of writings, member cards, images, and more are now includable widgets
                - Future website pages will not be constrained to a particular layout
                - Some tweaks, like image positioning and fine-grained placement, still require CSS. Some "advanced" widgets will require knowledge of Liquid. But the goal is that people can build a good-looking page without knowing CSS or HTML or Liquid at all.
                - Documentation will be on Roam + a set of template pages that can be used as reference/starter pages
                - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) calls this a "design language"
                    - Also: Should we revisit the existing website milestones? They don't seem as applicable anymore...
        - Talked about building ebooks as part of the publishing flow
            - [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) thinks we can do something quick-and-dirty using Pandoc
                - https://pandoc.org/epub.html
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) suggests building the ePub file first, and then using an in-page ePub viewer
                - https://github.com/futurepress/epub.js/
            - Another possibility: Use two different site generators, one for the main body of the website, and another to build "subsites" like [Astonishing Stories](<Astonishing Stories.md>) + relevant ebook
        - [Sachin Benny](<Sachin Benny.md>) points out that we still don't have Google Analytics access. [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) will follow up with [Tom Critchlow](<Tom Critchlow.md>).
            - Worst-case scenario, we just call old data a loss and spin up a new account.
        - Long-term, move some IFTTT automation into GitHub using Actionflow
            - https://github.com/actionsflow/actionsflow
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) points out that this doesn't roll in the Google Calendar to [Discord](<Discord.md>) connector currently powered by [Zapier](<Zapier.md>)
                - Best idea seems to be to use the server Maier's built the `yak_scraper` bot on
                - We'll need [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>) to add a new A record pointing to this server. Maybe hook it into `robot.yakcollective.org`?
    - Infrastructure Chat 23 [October 18th, 2020](<October 18th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - {{or: Early Concept | Proposal | Active | Complete}} 
        - yak NM engagement
            - send discord announcement
            - email newsletter? 
                - [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>)
            - minimum for next stage is 50-100 people
            - no specification for the next phase - of matching 
        - Project page template (knack integration?)
            - [Concept Contrast Project (temp name)](<Concept Contrast Project (temp name).md>)
        - Discord bot
            - [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) made a test bot
            - commands
                - $whosenew
                - $hello
            - $10/mo  
            - made it a private repository 
            - make discord bot provision permission based on a list of snowflake IDs? 
            - .
            - Project updates
                - Have dedicated channel 
                - Every few days - 1 for each project what's going on 
                - discord -> roam & knack? or discord -> knack 
                    - knack as management of frontend/data 
                    - website as a view into some of that data
        - Discord gardening
        - AMA
        - What are the current 6 pages that are hot? 
        - or what's the status on each project? 
    - Infrastructure Chat 22 [October 11th, 2020](<October 11th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - Knackifying the yak network map google form https://yak.knack.com/yaks[yakmap-participation-signup](<yakmap-participation-signup.md>)/
        - There may be minor data normalization that needs to happen with capitalization, spaces, etc
        - Test email 
        - Added password to knack form
        - Discord bot is set up that can message based on UID
        - Bot can compose parameters from discord into knack url like snowflake iD (UUID)
        - Astonishing stories launching 1x week. card can be iterated upon.
    - Infrastructure Chat 21 [October 4th, 2020](<October 4th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - **[participants](<participants.md>):** [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>) | [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>) | [Hershil Patel](<Hershil Patel.md>) | [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>) | [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>)
        - Jenna has integrated the Yak Map questions into Knack.
            - So, the idea is to drive the Yak Map first, and __then__ create an account if that makes sense.
        - YakTalk is burned out. Too intense to produce.
            - Needs to be reconstituted.
        - Maier proposes "Yak Orbits" based upon [Vaugh Tan](<Vaugh Tan.md>)'s work.
            - Maier's idea is to present this as a non-editable field.
            - Jenna thinks this assignable on the back end.
                - to display or not to display, on member profile [openquestion](<openquestion.md>)
            - This would be an additional number, in addition to the Discord level and heat map.
        - The idea is to use Vinay's Yak Map project to jumpstart data entry here.
            - Current conceptual levels (via Vinay):
                - Yaks (posted info)
                - Active Yaks (participating in any form)
                    - Project Participants
                - Made Yaks (actually named in projects)
        - UID issues
            - Maier suggests we use the 15 digit Discord UID
                - General agreement that this is the way to go.
            - Vinay's using Discord username
        - Maier proposes that we push people from Discord -> Knack as part of onboarding
        - Jenna thinks we have Yak Map questions __first__ in Knack
            - Knack can send out welcome emails.
                - But Discord won't provide these (see below).
            - Vinay will send Jenna the initial scraped CSV. This CSV has the Discord UID.
                - [October 5th, 2020](<October 5th, 2020.md>) https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IPpiOm17In1ZLQqcNeVh4lVc-7T21dOdtZ8zPOm9ONA/edit?usp=sharing
        - Maier points out that Discord only provides UID, username, and role
            - We can bootstrap these comms using Maier's `yak_scraper` robot
            - For the moment, we'll just DM people; later, we __may__ add interactivity.
                - Reminders will be on a timer.
    - infrastructure chat 20 [September 27th, 2020](<September 27th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - Yak talk newsletter
            - Hey everyone, myself and a few of the yak talk team will be dropping in today to talk about the newsletter, how its changing, and how we can collaborate.
        - What I know...
- YakTalk
- YakMap data schema
- YakMap form: confirm build in Knack (or out)
- Knack login ready for first testing >>> https://yak.knack.com/yaks[yak-profile](<yak-profile.md>)/
            - first pass close!
            - haven't added yak map member
            - haven't made any ask of members
            - Maier integration testing with the API 
                - Do we want to embed in yakcollective website?  (iframe)
            - member speedbump
                - fill out knack profile before contributing to a project? 
                - knack profile to replace the signup google form? 
                    - add the post-sign up page with discord invite link
                        - also show the active projects and how to get involved, who to contact, CFP 
                            - project tracking in knack
                        - don't have to solicit engagement but more an invitation with 3 options
                            - 1. read more?
                            - 2. jump in? 
                        - We need a Start Here that presents different ways to get into - different profiles will follow different paths, although we may recommend one - by [Hugo Macedo](<Hugo Macedo.md>) 
                            - what's a successful onboarding: 
                                - [x] Profile created
                                - [x] joined discord 
                                    - [x] intro in discord
                                - [x] go to Roam and read Start Here
                            - What's the "minimum viable interaction" you need to feel included/part of? 
assume that you can't know/digest everything at once - YC is a complex and labyrintic  mansion just pick a small "room"
                        - Way for members to get announcements or updates from projects
                - internal fields for project contributions -> display member page 
        - updated infrastructure map 
        - discord python library - discord onboarding experience or analytics - no update 
        - now page - no update, priority for this week - wrap into astonishing stories branch
            - yakcollective.org/now or /current  
        - Newsletter
            -  Praful taking over from Alex and Matt
            - newsletter has a global team 
            - weekly cadence
            - been hard to sustain
            - proposal
                - make the newsletter more sustainable 
                - newsletter as an interface for engaging w YC as an "outsider"
                - jobs to be done
                    - level up as a freelancer
                    - social group
                - train up a network of members that can lead projects 
                - sections
                    - member spotlight
                    - decision
                - get a few stories drafted by Tues/Wed and edit Wed/Thurs ... send out on Fridays
                    - have less intensity around requiring every track to be represented
            - automate the production of yak talk more... center it more around project updates w/ editors providing commentary? 
                - project updates, analytics -> aggregated for newsletter
                    - update could be knack form
                        -  single place to update would be great. instead of discord, email, call...
            - content in some ways can actually detract from figuring out what's going on in yak collective
            - possibility of using another tool besides substack like buttondown 
                - substack doesn't have good analytics
            - crosschecking member emails vs substack emails 
            - GPT-3 assisted newsletter writing?
        - Yak Map
            - market through discord announcement channel and Yak Talk newsletter
            - form draft in channel
            - open questions
                - knack vs google form? 
                    - allowing members to change data in knack with the rest of their profile... could be a separate section 
                        - GDPR
                        - can pull in the data via the API 
                    - although updates don't HAVE to be real-time
                - are there fields that we want to add? 
                - bio cards
                    - iframe?
                    - api -> biocard will need help
                        - will be used to generate markdown format 
            - push to launch next week
            - jenna - share admin page 
        - paul updated start here page 
    - infrastructure chat 19 [September 20th, 2020](<September 20th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - ![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FArtOfGig%2FA7_7gZSq2J.png?alt=media&token=91c594a8-94c9-401d-8466-0c3b0ec1c019)
        - Discordpy
            - Testing for activity ```javascript
```
            - User/project Heartbeat 
                - User availability ping on Discord
            - Project heartbeat
                - Discord
                - Roam
                - Github
            - Semantic emoji -> message
        - marketing
            - spoke with Maier
            - chatted with Grigori
            - early days 
            - expectations for marketing
            - What's important right now?
                - Projects haven't had much marketing
                    - Mostly relying on Twitter and social capital of Venkat and other members 
                    - 1. Astonishing Stories and 2. Innovation Consulting both need marketing support 
                    - Defining project audience for each project 
                        - define audience at project start rather than at end 
                - Internal marketing 
                    - engaging users more 
                        - making opportunities/activity visible.. where can people plug in? 
                        - get the /now page going
                        - onboarding
                            - new Yak chat is good for meeting and getting to know each other
                            - Venkat's chat otherwise is the only one that has threshold of attendance. 
                            - chats are easy to join vs project works 
                        - reactivation is key. we already have a lot of community members
                        - gap with community members that don't have as strong of a self-starting lean
                - External marketing 
                    - potential customers
                - Newsletter
                    - shift to more internal focus? 
                    - communicate project activity more ? 
        - roam js+templates [Roam template PoC by @ViktorTabori](<Roam template PoC by @ViktorTabori.md>)
            - can turn on/off js [roam/js](<roam/js.md>)
            - populates the template :header:   [template/header](<template/header.md>)
            - have some template for Roam page 
                - write up quick start guide for Roam ?
                - could use [*](((B6fmZASx5))) {{[r/moved](<r/moved.md>)}} to trigger a reminder to refresh
            - have metadata and context so pages don't go stale
                - allows for Roam cell:  Roam wrangling/librarian/archivist role
        - Roam
            - could potentially use daily notes for harvesting activity ? 
            - Sidebar - shortcuts - keep updated
            - Directory is deprecated
            - there's a lot of quiescent pages
                - last modified info - view for control ? 
                - pull everything out of sidebar that's inactive 
                - identify the single wringable neck for each page - associated with cell? 
            - Index/welcome page for the Roam - useful structure
        - Project mgt as independent role Â»Â»  [Production Squad](<Production Squad.md>)
        - project activity measurement, etc.
        - Nathan has more availability post-November
        - Onboarding continue to be a painpoint
            - go through discord channels - and add links to Discord topics 
        - **Action Items:**
            - [ ] Everyone (+Paul)- Clean up Roam 
                - Review changes next week 
            - [ ] Darren - Add roam links to each discord channel 
            - [ ] Nathan - Pass at Now page 
            - [ ] Hugo - assess and consider marketing plan
            - [ ] Darren - experiment w Discord analytics 
                - [ ] messages sent per channel/week 
                - [ ] webhook to YC website? 
            - [ ] Nathan - @Bardia works at Roam, interested in knowing about Astonishing Stories/Yak experience with roam 
        - member database:
            - [x] Knack: is it time? [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>): check with Jordan (payment) (dm'd on Discord)
                - [ ] receive reply from [Jordan Peacock](<Jordan Peacock.md>)
            - [x] yak map: is it time? [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>)check with Vinay (data schema)
                - [ ] receive reply from [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>)
        - 
    - infrastructure chat 18 [September 13th, 2020](<September 13th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - ![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FArtOfGig%2Fia1JXLwU6y.jpeg?alt=media&token=e916e06f-1982-4e51-8b17-ddb5e8b990be)
        - Audio bandwidth
            - Discord levels have audio bandwidth tier 
            - Updating Discord level ... 30 boosts $5/mo
            - alternative meeting infrastructure
                - google meet
                    - Change meeting to google meet - use Nathan's account
                - zoom 
        - Assets 
            - Calendar
                - 15 people access to edit
                - Currently owned by Venkat 
                    - Added modify sharing permissions to yak collective gmail 
            - [Twitter](<Twitter.md>)
                - change email address from Venkat to yak collective gmail 
                - Tweetdeck teams is how permissions are shared
        - Carl drip discord messages
        - Proposal structure
            - Active projects - have run into logistical issues. Something systematic going on? First set of projects had momentum. 
                - Final Frontiers - illness 
                - Innovation Consulting - last editing cycle, stuck in resourcing production piece 
                - Astonishing stories - budget to graphics
            - Make sure Venkat isn't the bottleneck for the next set 
                - Automate the proposal 
                - Move from sync, not every month, 3 months, etc
                - Async on-demand process, 2-3 people interested in working on something... kick off on their own timeline, decentralized
                - Move to smaller demand, easier to market themselves easily, filling resourcing needs, lots of little thing that need to be fixed 
                - Maier: channel on discord - the projects keep bubbling up... you can't talk. only vote up projects. 
                    - What resources/value do yakcollective get? 
                        - Marketing - Marketing resources - newsletter, twitter, page...
                            - Marketing is decentralized now 
                        - Staffing - In theory, pool of resources 
                        - Financial 
                - Marketing
                    - Don't waste on the reboot
                        - how many views, how many outreach, how much money? 
                        - probably zero, but it was more of an introduction 
                        - get insight into how the projects get positioned, what does well, etc
                    - 600 yaks but 34 members 
                        - Structurally we have 1/3 gig job site and 2/3 is missing. 
                        - Why are people joining? Why are people contributing
                            - New independent consultants, gain experience
                            - Survey ? 
                            - + Defining and stating what membership means 
                                - to help qualify and give structure for members to contribute... 
                        - Member available/not available
                            - Slider?
                            - Can also take an aggregate view of yak collective availability 
                            - gig weather pulse 
                            - 1x month - temperature check
                                - Discord bot? 
                                - Email?
                        - Discord, Roam -> email
                            - Member updates
                            - Project - Scrum updates
                                - Active project as an entity 
                                - Either project is dead or backburner or ... Project is a living thing. Polled just like an individual 
                            - Roam 
                                - Extract updates - structured fields 
                            - Analogy streak checkins with Github 
        - Discord
            - UX of pinned messages 
            - Add roam page to channel topic
                - Did so with infrastructure  
            - Roam unfurl preview is not helpful atm, but probably Roam will fix.
            - People come with wrong expectation. That they should have high level visibility of everything
                - Bureaucracy vs farmer's market
                - Have to walk into the right stall 
                - How do we 
        - Website could have a "now" page or what the active projects are
            - Help orient people to get active 
            - State of the union update -> web active page 
                - Historical, Active 
        - Prospectus 
            - No one's worked on this
        - Next steps/projects:
            - 1. Email inward facing member/project member thing
            - 2. Update proposal project thats async 
                - Venkatesh owning V2 "human" side 
                - Define set of specs - to do a roam page, here there are 3 fields. 
                    - Use Knack? 
            - 3. CMO role
    - infrastructure chat 17 [September 6th, 2020](<September 6th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - ![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FArtOfGig%2FjzX_MdmIS_.jpeg?alt=media&token=620f7414-6f61-417e-919b-64b41f8a086d)
        - assets for social 
            - substack
                - grigori - asked about the email list if they could compare to substack 
                - Matthew Sweet is slowly taking over 
                - possibility of email signup for specific project 
                    - switch to another email newsletter tool that supports multiple lists? 
                - two newsletters?
                    - prospective client
                    - prospective members
                - export newsletter email list 
                - subscribe google form emails to substack?
            - twitter
                - ?
            - facebook
                - ?
        - marketing
            - there's not enough dedicated marketing personnel 
                - don't necessarily need to do a weekly newsletter 
        - member onboarding?
            - capturing info Discord intro -> subscribe to newsletter?
                - newsletter - curious 
                    - there's also pruning mechanisms like if you haven't opened the last email  
                - have to get involved 
                - have to ask for more information 
                - website - after they stick around 
            - hellobot - DM 
                - yak map
                - newsletter 
            - nothing new since 
                - emoji reacts in introduction channel
                - + weekly welcome by Jordan 
            - be more directive of onboarding ... to paths 
                - list of links - look around 
                - complete minimal steps 
                - not sure if Carl can do a drip or triggered messages 
                - join - first message, intro-  second message?, third message - fill out this web  form?
        - Documentation guidelines
        - Action items:
            - Look into triggered / drip messages for Carl 
            - Twitter/fb accounts
    - infrastructure chat 16 [August 29th, 2020](<August 29th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - https://tilnow.github.io/docjs/index
            - Tried to look into how this could work in Roam using the mermaid diagram... can't link out to pages atm
        - Nathan - documentation sprint on Roam  [Yak Collective Website](<Yak Collective Website.md>) page
        - discord changes were being implemented by Jordan + people he invited (ping Jordan for update)
        - Knack integration 
            - demo of website that pulls in data from Knack (which is itself a copy of github data) - almost works perfectly. there's a problem with Jekyll plugin -> member pages are getting wrong layout
        - gov question after the implementation is figured out... 
            - how do we want to handle - Jenna has been leading some of that [Privacy Policy](<Privacy Policy.md>)
                - how do we want to publicize
                - what level of controls
                - GDPR compliance given worldwide membership
        - [Schema | member data](<Schema | member data.md>)
            - only required fields in YAML atm are Name and Avatar
                - tabled the idea of pulling that from discord (GDPR compliance)
                    - people on website are the contributors to projects
                - do we want to have discord name? 
            - possibility of Roam-Web integration in a future version of the site in Gatsby
                - example: https://mathieudutour.github.io/gatsby-digital-garden/
                - concern on data consistency but will be addressed with Roam's new backend
        - move the chat to Sunday which is better for Nathan and Maier
        - revisit [Threat Model](<Threat Model.md>)
            - do another pass at the credential documentation in this page
            - currently share netlify account that is owned by our "robot" github account - we would need 3 members if we were to go paid $19 per member x3 members / mo
    - infrastructure chat 15 [August 22nd, 2020](<August 22nd, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - [Yak Collective Website](<Yak Collective Website.md>)update from [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>)
            - V2.2 website, backend clean up, documentation/code comments
                - Wanting to beef up the Roam page to help with onboarding other people 
            - Featured yak has some issues still
            - Nathan met with Sachin, Jenna, Chris re Astonishing Stories
                - Have dev test on structure of having projects that can have n arbitrary pages
            - Long-term move to Gatsby
                - allow for more robust data integrations
                - there's experiments with combining Roam + Gatsby as presentation layer
        - Roam back up - currently manual monthly... automatic? 
        - Making updates to [Yak Collective State of the Union](<Yak Collective State of the Union.md>)
    - infrastructure chat skipped [August 15th, 2020](<August 15th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 14](<infrastructure chat 14.md>) [August 8th, 2020](<August 8th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - [Yak Collective State of the Union](<Yak Collective State of the Union.md>) roam version
    - infrastructure chat 13 [August 1st, 2020](<August 1st, 2020.md>)
state of the union deck [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12pLjGxC6egO4QJvy06AjBTWm_4XhkfStyfdQ7p6DoOg/edit[slide](<slide.md>)=id.p
    - [infrastructure chat 12](<infrastructure chat 12.md>) [July 25th, 2020](<July 25th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - infrastructure chat 11 [July 18th, 2020](<July 18th, 2020.md>)
worked on spotlight/case study [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 10](<infrastructure chat 10.md>) [July 11th, 2020](<July 11th, 2020.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 09](<infrastructure chat 09.md>) [July 4th, 2020](<July 4th, 2020.md>) 
Yakcoin dev updates and discussion w/ [Johnicholas Hines](<Johnicholas Hines.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 08](<infrastructure chat 08.md>) [June 27th, 2020](<June 27th, 2020.md>)
marketing outreach w/ [Alex Wagner](<Alex Wagner.md>)+ levelling up discord w/ [Jordan Peacock](<Jordan Peacock.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 07](<infrastructure chat 07.md>) [June 20th, 2020](<June 20th, 2020.md>) 
Consulting diagrams w/ [Steven Moody](<Steven Moody.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - infrastructure chat 06 [June 13th, 2020](<June 13th, 2020.md>) 
notes in â€” [Yak Collective Website](<Yak Collective Website.md>) + [Newsletter](<Newsletter.md>) [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
        - Audio Recording: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DVi_QFWCoyJjT1UPUXp52tQ876NS-vp2/view
    - [infrastructure chat 05](<infrastructure chat 05.md>) [June 6th, 2020](<June 6th, 2020.md>) 
didn't happen but agenda topics here [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 04](<infrastructure chat 04.md>) [May 30th, 2020](<May 30th, 2020.md>)
Project Capacity + experiences with Yakcoin discussion [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [infrastructure chat 03](<infrastructure chat 03.md>) [May 23th, 2020](<May 23th, 2020.md>) 
Updates on new-member onboarding, feedback mechanisms, event ideas [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [[infrastructure](<infrastructure.md>) chat 02](<[infrastructure](<infrastructure.md>) chat 02.md>) [May 16th, 2020](<May 16th, 2020.md>) 
Speculative discussion on ideal-state for YC infrastructure [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)
    - [[infrastructure](<infrastructure.md>) chat 01](<[infrastructure](<infrastructure.md>) chat 01.md>) [May 9th, 2020](<May 9th, 2020.md>) 
On-boarding new members [meeting-notes](<meeting-notes.md>)

# Backlinks
## [**infrastructure**](<**infrastructure**.md>)
- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [Astonishing Stories -  Meeting notes](<Astonishing Stories -  Meeting notes.md>)
- [ ] propose: adding Newsletter link to website on the [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [Hugo Macedo](<Hugo Macedo.md>)
- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [Introduction to the Yak Collective](<Introduction to the Yak Collective.md>)
- Take on some service projects like helping build our [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>),

## [October 11th, 2020](<October 11th, 2020.md>)
- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [October 5th, 2020](<October 5th, 2020.md>)
- 20:07 [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>) gardened [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [September 20th, 2020](<September 20th, 2020.md>)
- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [Yak Collective State of the Union](<Yak Collective State of the Union.md>)
- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

## [Yak Network Map](<Yak Network Map.md>)
- [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

- Follow up: [Vinay DÃ©brou](<Vinay DÃ©brou.md>) will propose possible times for a joint call on the [Discord](<Discord.md>) [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)

