- **Date and Time: Thursday, December 10th, 8AM - 10AM Pacific.**
    - Zoom info: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87558263911
    - Meeting ID: 875 5826 3911
- Check the [Yak Collective State of the Union](<Yak Collective State of the Union.md>) kanban board for a general overview of what's going on
- **Agenda**
    - **0730: Doors open**
        - ^^**NOTICE 1**: This meeting will be recorded starting 8AM, and the recording will be available for community members to view. If you don't want to be seen/heard, please turn off your video/mic.^^
        - **NOTICE 2**: Please use the the annual-meeting channel on Discord for sidechannel chatting, not the Zoom chat. If you're not on the Discord, you can get the invite link at https://www.yakcollective.org/join/
    - **0800-0805**: [Introduction to the Yak Collective](<Introduction to the Yak Collective.md>)
    - **0805-0900: Operations/Infra Updates (9x5 minutes each = 45 minutes, 10 minutes slack)** — everybody make sure to cover where things will go next. Emcee = Darren 
        1. Darren - intro 
        2. [Jenna Dixon](<Jenna Dixon.md>): Production infrastructure and member directory intro
        3. [Nathan Acks](<Nathan Acks.md>): Website
        4. [Maier Fenster](<Maier Fenster.md>): Tools & Automation
        5. [Hugo Macedo](<Hugo Macedo.md>): Marketing
        6. [Praful Mathur](<Praful Mathur.md>): Newsletter
        7. [Vinay Débrou](<Vinay Débrou.md>): Yak Network Map
        8. [Jordan Peacock](<Jordan Peacock.md>): New Yaks
        9. [Darren Kong](<Darren Kong.md>): Infrastructure big picture/wrap up
        10. [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>):  [Yak Collective Fund](<Yak Collective Fund.md>) and paid [Client Projects](<Client Projects.md>)
    - **0900 - 0920: Retrospective fishbowl on past projects**
        - **Moderator: Jenna**
            - Answer: "Why are projects impt to YC"
        - People who have lead projects will reflect, others will be muted but can ask questions on chat, to be prioritized and asked by moderator.
            - Brief 1-2 min intro / retro on project
            - General meta discussion
        - Participants: Paul Millerd, Pamela Hobart, Drew Schorno, Jordan Peacock, Venkatesh Rao, Sachin Benny, Amanda Reeves, Siva Swaroop, Vaughn Tan, Dave McDougall
    - **0920 - 0950**: [Project Pitches](<Project Pitches.md>) (6x5=30 minutes)
        - **Moderator: TBD**
        - If you want a pitch slot, make a project page and link it below. If we have more than 6 pitches, we'll prioritize the best developed ones
        - Paul Millerd: [Hack US Gig Worker Healthcare](<Hack US Gig Worker Healthcare.md>)
        - Grigori Milov: [Boutiques vs Marketplaces Wargames](<Boutiques vs Marketplaces Wargames.md>)
        - Shreeda Segan: [The New Old Country](<The New Old Country.md>)
        - Venkatesh Rao: [Yak Rover](<Yak Rover.md>)
        - Paul Sas: [Empirical Feng Shui](<Empirical Feng Shui.md>)
    - **0950 - 1000: Closing remarks/town hall**
        - Open-ended questions

# Backlinks
## [December 9th, 2020](<December 9th, 2020.md>)
- [YC Annual Meeting 2020](<YC Annual Meeting 2020.md>)

## [Infrastructure](<Infrastructure.md>)
- #[YC Annual Meeting 2020](<YC Annual Meeting 2020.md>)

- #[YC Annual Meeting 2020](<YC Annual Meeting 2020.md>)

## [Venkatesh Rao](<Venkatesh Rao.md>)
- [YC Annual Meeting 2020](<YC Annual Meeting 2020.md>)

