- Use this page to capture ideas on how best to make productive use of the chat sessions. Add short descriptions of the format here, along with any notes on how it went when you tried. Focus on trial and error, so only add a format here after you try it at least once.
- Case Clinic: For the first session on April 3rd, we tried out the Case Clinic idea suggested by [[Vinay Débrou]]. One person in the hot seat describes a problem or situation, and others offer ideas/resources etc that might be helpful.
- Open Spaces: For the session on April 4th, I tried an vague [Open Spaces](https://openspaceworld.org/wp2/) process: we go around introducing ourselves and our current concerns, and try to build a shared topic around the most common concerns. Most of us were day-jobbers looking to make the transition, and ended up talking about early marketing and client prospecting.  
- 5 April 2020: [[Pamela Hobart]] tried a question "What behavior or personality trait do you most attribute your success to, and why?" - we were an extremely diverse group of 4 with wacky backgrounds, so it worked fine.
- April 8 2020: [[Venkatesh Rao]] hosted. Per [[Drew Schorno]] we tried the rule of everyone unmuting, and that helped conversation flow better 
- 12 April 2020 with [[Pamela Hobart]] We each shared something that's going well in our work lives - pandemic notwithstanding - as this is kind of tacky/forbidden to discuss publicly right now and committed to take next step on those things this week. 
- 17 April: [[Amazonian Group Read]]: 10 minutes quick-reading an article picked by group leader, 20 minutes talking about it. Worked really well. We used a round-robin voice handover protocol, where each person hands the mic to the next one in alphabetical order, going back round as many times as necessary to accommodate people who join late or have mic problems. When the round robin ends, open floor.
- 19 April 2020 with [[Pamela Hobart]]: group reading of [The Breakdown of Ignoring](https://carcinisation.com/2020/04/13/the-breakdown-of-ignoring/) - had a small group of 5, this worked really well. <10min read, ~20 min discussion, was apparently not difficult for people to take turns without calling on them or anything
- "Closing tabs with So-and-so": [[Sachin Benny]] and [[Johnicholas Hines]] will try this format on May 29 2020
