- There's a meditative practice, which is something like:memorizing a particular list of 32 parts of the body, and then working your way through the list, directing your attention to each one in turn - and how "unclean", "repulsive" or "disgusting" they are.
- Programmer
    - [@johnicholas on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Johnicholas)
    - [www.johnicholas.com](http://www.johnicholas.com)
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patikulamanasikara I don't know much about Buddhism, but I think that's sufficient springboard to suggest an exercise.
- A programmer can take various attitudes towards the various tools and components that they are working with. You can absolutely take an attitude of wonder and delight to particular pieces of code. Possibly labeling a piece of code "black magic" indicates that attitude, possibly it means something else.  You can feel emotions of authority, either trying to be authoritative and giving instructions to programmers and/or machines "A Foo Shall Implement Bar" or trying to be compliant to authority "According to Best Practice, the names of methods are imperative verbs".
- What if you systematically worked through your often-used, nearby, tools and components, and carefully took an attitude of accepting disgust towards them? Might that lead to the right kind of loose grip on these tools and components that allow you to choose to release them, replace them, or fix them?
- This connects to the idea of "code smells". Generally a refactoring enthusiast speak highly of acceptance, and that's certainly part of the Buddhist practice. However, the odds are, almost any piece of code, if you give it to a refactoring enthusiast, will "smell [bad]". You might attribute this to "the sorry state of software practice" or something, that most code is objectively bad. On the other hand, you could say that the refactoring practice, like the Buddhist practice, recommends taking an attitude of accepting disgust toward everything.
- One translation of "Patikulamanasikara"  might be "[the body] considered repulsive" (To be clear, I am trying to reference Dijkstra's title "GOTO considered harmful").
- Who wants to try "[software] considered repulsive" meditation?
