- **About Me:** 
    - You can think of me as an investigative reporter navigating the multiverse of emerging futures 🔮. My specialty is building innovation and venture building models. I am based in Montreal, Canada and work in a startup incubator in emerging tech, helping STEM researchers and multidisciplinary teams take the leap into entrepreneurship. 
    - **Skills**: [[Innovation]] & [[Venture Building]]; [[Marketing]] & [[Communications]]; [[Writing]]; [[Product Marketing]]; [[Project Management]]. 
    - [@Khalilghaddad](https://twitter.com/Khalilghaddad) | [World Creation Society](https://worldcreation.substack.com/)
    - [World Creation Society](https://worldcreation.substack.com/): antidisciplinary insights on technology, innovation, society, and emerging futures.
    - [[Khalil Governance Notes]]
        - Yak Collective as Platform:
        - The focus is on developing the governance platform of the Yak Collective in which all projects must grow. Since a gig worker operates in the shadows, the Yak Collective platform is a shadow platform that is deployed to solve client needs.
        - Much like the gig worker is a shadow, the Yak Collective "begins like superhero origin [story], with some sort of horrifying accident. The shadow’s journey though, unlike the hero’s journey, doesn’t end in either triumph or tragedy. In fact, the shadow’s journey does not end at all. At some point, it simply becomes __billable__." and so the Yak Collective becomes a platform that allows collective gig workers to become billable.
        - Yaks must eat their own dog food, meaning "start with a [Yak] platform, and then use it for everything," otherwise challenges will come later down the line as the Yak Collective attempts to scale. This entails ensuring governance standards are met for projects.
        - If we take the remixed guru-shishya parampara educational model, the Benevolent Guru-Dictator would need Benevolent Yak Apprentice Students.
        - It's a hybrid graduate-apprentice student Yak helping guide project leaders and new Yaks within a research laboratory if you will. These Yak graduate students will monitor projects to make sure they abide by the Yak Collective platform governance standards. So the focus is not on critiquing projects but ensuring they abide by the governance standards.
        - Taking from Ven's Guru Factor article, these Yak graduates will serve in creating a tradition of Yaking, with young Yaks "practicing scales and set compositions in ragas, and [move] on to learning to render compositions in particular styles, peculiar to specific traditions" and "head towards the free-form structured improvisation that is raga performance. These performances often involve a strong element of sparring with accompanying [Yaks]."
        - By monitoring and guiding projects, the governance model will be instilled among other Yak who will gain the tacit knowledge to operate independently, so that Yaks can identity the "right nut to tighten" in the Yak governance motor to operate successfully. 
        - It creates a "structured structurelessness" that perpetuates and produces a Yak elite that will become stewards of the collective and entails having responsibilities of serving Yak members.
        - Since the intent of the Yak Collective is to be porous, security is not as much of a concern, accessibility should take precedence in allowing new yaks to quickly grasp the essentials to operate effectively within the Yak universe. "The team must plan and design to be able to expose the interface to developers in the outside world. No exceptions."
        - But perhaps a more appropriate dilemma is not accessibility vs security, but accessibility vs reputation. By its very nature, if the Yak Collective is decentralized and operates as a shadow platform, being part of the Yak Collective is more of a status symbol among Yaks rather than towards clients at this stage of its development. 
        - By Yaks contributing to projects, a concern to their reputation might be part of their decision matrix in how much vested interest they are willing to deploy in a project. 
        - Having Flag successful projects that can serve as mythologies for Yaks will reinforce the benefit of contributing to Yak projects.
        - The key indicator of success is Yaks exporting the model to create federations or small colonies of Yaks across the globe. Forking the Yak Collective into new Yak worlds to be explored for experimentation, which would lead to a more resilient collective. 
        - This also provides an outlet for in-group contrarians to demonstrate if they have a better way of doing things, with the market serving as the ultimate judge so that any faulty assumptions are smoothed out by the rigid surface of the market pavement.
        - If successful, any gig worker stands to benefit from contributing to the collective to develop a network of other gig workers who can patch their weaknesses and help better deploy solutions to serve clients and take on bigger gigs.
        - Any gig worker will realize they stand to benefit by being part of the collective if it functions properly because the surplus value generated for coordinated action will be far superior to the one generated alone (ex: Innovation Consulting project, ability to pool resources to take on big clients).
        - Since gig work is ultimately about client service, everything should operate "in a services-first fashion. It is now fundamental to how they approach all designs, including internal designs for stuff that might never see the light of day externally." The Yak Collective becomes a "repurposable computing platform."
