- Hello everyone, welcome to the Neurofuturama pop-up think tank! Week 1 is the brainstorm/think-tank week. Please read this email fully -- I have tried to put everything together compactly so we minimize time on overhead logistics/clarifications and spend most of our time discussing the content.
    - **Goal**: Our goal for this week is for each contributor to converge on 2-3 contribution concept for their module(s) of the project at a paper-napkin level. I have created a stub page for each contributor [on the main Neurofuturama Roam page](https://roamresearch.com/#/app/ArtOfGig/page/Cap6_MuVN?help). Please use your page as a scratch page to dump your evolving thoughts, useful links, etc. As much as possible, when contributing to other people's ideas, use their page to add feedback, suggestions, links etc. into. By the end of the week, your page should be a good starting point for you to actually develop your contribution module**. I suggest you keep both the main page and your modules page as open tabs through the week, since inspiration can strike anytime. The Discord chat may flow by really fast and it will be hard to capture all the ideas/threads/themes... so treat your page as the "fishing net" for your module(s) -- use a personal google doc if Roam starts getting slow or janky**
    - **Prompt: **Your overall prompt question is this: Assuming Kernel's technological and business vision works out, what might the world of 2040 look like, when "neuroscience as a service" is commonplace, and devices like neuromonitoring helmets are perhaps as common as laptops today? For calibration: compare Google or Amazon in 1998 to today, when we take them for granted.
    - **Deliverable Structure**: As you know, our approach is going to be a structured visioning exercise using [David Hackett Fischer's "folkways" model](https://www.dropbox.com/s/65zb2jm7vclwq78/folkways.pdf?dl=0), to generate speculative ideas about the future of Kernel-like neurotech around 24 society/culture themes that serve as a sort of "societal genome." We will be discussing these in 3 clusters of 8 folkways each, to make things a little easier. Each module will be 2-3 slides. Along with some bookend slides made by project coordinators (Jordan and me), so we should end up with a ~55-60 slide deck.
    - **Schedule -- participate as much as you are able, we will try to go through the folkways on Tuesday-Thursday in an improv order, based on who is ready to go when/timezone considerations. We'll have some flexibility to swap assigned days around to resolve schedule conflicts, but try and do your module brainstorm on the assigned day, since the cluster context will be useful.**
        - **Monday**: Reading and sense-making day. Read/browse the references on the [Neurofuturama main Roam page](https://roamresearch.com/#/app/ArtOfGig/page/Cap6_MuVN?help), ask each other questions, find and share other useful links and add them to the references list, dump your initial thoughts on your the stub page for your module(s).
        - **Tuesday**: Personal/family folkways cluster: __family ways, marriage ways, gender ways, sex ways, child-rearing ways, naming ways, age ways, death ways__, plus 6 PM PT zoom chat with Kernel founder Bryan Johnson (highly recommended you attend if you can, but not required)
        - **Wednesday**: Community folkways cluster: __religious ways, magic ways, learning ways, food ways, dress ways, sport ways, work ways__
        - **Thursday: **Society folkways cluster: __time ways, speech ways, building ways wealth ways, rank ways, social ways, order ways, power ways, freedom ways__
        - **Friday: **Synthesis/Convergence day: each contributor individually tries to clean up and synthesize the top 2-3 concepts they are entertaining. By the end of the week, any other contributor should be able to look at your page and get a sense of where you're roughly headed with your modules.
    - **Internal Experts/Resources**: We have 2 contributors with some directly relevant expertise among the contributors: **Luke Butler** and **Nikhil Deshmukh**. Jordan and I deliberately decided to assign them each only 1 module each, so they'd have more time to float and provide feedback to the others (and we'll be reserving a portion of the remaining budget to compensate them for this role). We also have **Ryan Hume** as our project illustrator. He will be available both to brainstorm visual concepts with you, and execute artwork for modules that need it, subject to bandwidth limits -- if he's oversubscribed, he'll decide which illustrations are most interesting for him to do from a visual perspective.
    - **Guest Experts**: We will also have 3 guest experts joining us for the brainstorm week. We'll improvise their mode of participation as we go along.
        - [Brian Ahuja](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianahuja/), a practicing telemedicine neurologist at [Realtime Neuromonitoring Associates](https://www.rtnassociates.com/) who serves as the neurologist monitoring patients undergoing surgery
        - [Joseph Fridman](https://www.josephfridman.com/about), who has a degree  in cognitive science, has previously worked in the lab of Lisa Feldman Barrett, a pioneering researcher in neuroscience emotions, and is currently an RA at the Harvard Belfer Center.
        - [Semon Rezchikov](https://www.linkedin.com/in/semon-rezchikov-87351858/), a math  PhD student at Columbia, who has previously worked on computational neuroscience at the [laboratory of Ed Boyden](http://syntheticneurobiology.org/), another pioneering neurotech institution you may be aware of.
    - **Kernel Participation**: We will also have Kernel founder/CEO **Bryan Johnson**, and possibly 1-2 of his staff, joining us as/when they are able in the Discord channel, and Bryan will also be joining us for a Zoom call on Tuesday
    - **Follow-on logistics**: I'll be trying to minimize email communications, but expect 2 more emails from me the next two Sundays, for the remainder of the active part of the project, and 1-2 at the end for wrap-up/payment logistics. **I'll be announcing office hours for Weeks 2 and 3 if you want to chat 1:1 about your module.**
