- Page written by: [[Rob Haisfield]]
- definition:: User involvement happens when the person is using your service to do the behaviors that make it awesome when their context calls for it.  We're essentially influencing user behavior so people do what makes both them and your business happy.​
    - Once we've set those behaviors in motion, we create a virtuous cycle of involvement.  This is because the positive behaviors lead to increased involvement while their increased involvement motivates them to do more of the positive behaviors.
        - Highly involved users are generally more forgiving of product deficiencies.  They have worked up a high self-efficacy, so when they run into obstacles they are more likely to attempt creative workarounds.
        - Highly involved users are loyal to the app and will support it.
- User involvement is distinct from user engagement, which is generally thought of as when people use your service as much as possible.  Increased user engagement isn't always in the best interest of the user and can lead to a conflict of interest between the user and the app.  User involvement is about providing value.  With high user involvement, you've won over your user.  They stay loyal to you for longer, they buy your new products, and they speak highly of you to their friends and contacts.  This is sustainable because you have found the way you fit into your user's lives.
- It's possible that highly involved users are just another way of describing power users, but the main distinction that I would point to is that power usage implies to me full usage of the product's functionality, whereas high [[user involvement]]]] only implies that they are using the app better than any alternative they have for the problems that they have.
- A continuous onboarding can foster **user involvement** and can be supported by community and community content.
- User involvement plays a vital role in determining [[The role of the user and the role of the app]].
