- Week 1
    - [Reading: Why The Culture Wins:](https://www.sciphijournal.org/index.php/2017/11/12/why-the-culture-wins-an-appreciation-of-iain-m-banks/)
    - Prompts
        - Any other recs for science fiction reads that explore evolution of technology through evolution of culture
        - Write a 200-300 word premise/exploration of a story that you think would fit into the Culture series
            - Venkat's premise
            -  {{word-count}}
                - The story involves the GCU __<True Name>__, a ship that, despite being old and experienced enough, has __not__ chosen a name for itself, and claims to be still searching for its first identity defining experience. It goes to a system with two inhabited planets, both around Level 5/6. One, Ukros is an older somewhat stagnant weaker planet with a rich history that was once the colony of the other one, Ruskos, a younger one with less history, which was originally settled by migrants from Ukros. Ukros is a somewhat anarchic Hobbesian federation of city states going through a dark age. It has islands of thriving science, enterprise, and culture, but also corruption, crime, and chaos. It is much weaker than Ruskos, but also dominates trade with the rest of the galaxy. Ruskos is an oppressive, authoritarian society is built around a state religion called Mimesiyah, based on the premise that most humans are base and corrupt, and that mimetic envy explains everything about them. In Mimesiyah the only hope is to let a rare Great Man individual known as the Imperior rule for life, above the law, and nearing his death, identify a 6-year-old child successor, based on holy signs of non-mimetic originality and greatness. A Straussian high priesthood actually governs day to day with a single stated objective to prevent what is regarded as the worst sin and sign of doom -- a scapegoating to kill the Imperior. The priesthood actually rules, and grooms the child successor to be a weak and compliant figurehead. Life revolves around the Imperior exhibiting an annual Mark of Originality, some sort of original creative work like a work of art or invention, in a ritual to legitimate continuation of the rule. The whole thing is completely captured, and anyone with actual originality is stomped out by the priesthood unless they escape to Ukros aboard a trade vessel. This constant escape of citizens to Ukros is a source of simmering tension, until Ruskos makes plans to invade and once more annex Ukros. 
                - At this point the Culture intervenes, sending GCU __<True Name>__, which sends an SC agent and drone to Ukros while the invasion is simmering. The invasion has begun, and is a few months in. The SC agent travels to Ruskos with a small band of Ukrosians she has assembled. Their goal is to trigger exactly the event Mimesiyah is built to fear -- a regime-ending scapegoating. This is to be done by undermining the Mark of Originality ritual, by producing incontrovertible evidence that the Mark is actually something the priesthood steals from some random actual original person, killing them and their family, with all provenance information suppressed. Except this time, the agent and the band manage to fake the whole thing, letting the priesthood think it has succeeded, when it has actually stolen an idea planted by the Culture. The day of the ritual, just a few hours before ritual, information about it is leaked. A popular insurrection begins, the military in Ukras mutinies, and a Ruskos mob descends on the palace to dethrone and kill the recently ascended child Imperior and dismantle the priesthood. This is now a moral quandary, and the SC agent, who was about to leave, goes back to try and save the child. But at the last minute, a drone sent by the GCU _<True Name>_ stops the agent, and allows the mob to take and kill the child, because it has reasoned that the Mimesiyah cannot be dethroned, nor Ukras saved, without actually sacrificing the child. Ruskos descends into a period of anarchic civil war, while Ukros shows signs of breaking out of its dark age, but unfortunately with a crime boss gaining power. The GCU _<True Name>_ delivers the SC agent to safety, and then kills itself, without ever naming itself. The rest of the Culture ships name it, post-mortem, the GCU __Object Lesson__
        - Take some technology that exists today and extrapolate it into what it would look/how it would function in the Culture universe of abundance and lack of meaning that the article talks about
            - maier's attempt
                - {{word-count}}
                    - chaotic leverage wars
                        - a (happily) relatively undeveloped technology is the identification of leverage points in a society - those places where the application of a small amount of "energy" will have an outsized effect on the state of society. in the current state of development we can create a simplified model of society and, using a  computer simulation or perhaps solving a complex set of equations identify these leverage points, and press them. in movies, the CIA can maybe use this to cause a coup in a country or some social group can cause the us society to slowly change its views and behaviors.
                        - a common example in current sci-fi can be found in time travel, esp. as made popular by the TV show "legends of tomorrow". every time they step on a butterfly in the past,  future society is totally warped and they need to fix it. more important - there is often an evil genius in the background trying to make changes to the timeline and this evil genius must be fought over several episodes or even seasons.  
                        - given the evolution of computing power and sociological modeling, this process can be automated (i am thinking of a sci fi story where a kid finds a battle computer and uses it to fight economic warfare and save his family by cornering the market on olive oil or something) 
                        - so imagine that you have a large number of people/ AIs (lets say even only 100, but 1b is more likely) all simultaneously probing for weakness/leverage points in the Culture and applying energy in order to cause it to evolve in their idiosyncratic desired direction (trying to do so in a stealth manner until it is "too late").  they would be both competing and cooperating, with coalitions forming and breaking very often and, of course, be at odds with any institution or individual that benefits from the stability of the culture.   
        - Sachin's Premise 
            - {{word-count}}
                - Ivester is an underground artist who lives on one of the Culture Planets. Although he lives in the Culture he considers himself an anarch (In the Ernst Junger sense of the word). He makes the Culture’s version of music which is a more sensorial experience than 21st century music. The music is synced with the neural lace that audience wear and can be used sent signals  to the artificial glands that people have to secrete the right cocktail of drugs to elicit emotions that the creator wants. Controlling the neural lace of others without permission is considered taboo in the culture, so the concert goers go to Ivesters performance to seek the thrill of doing something taboo. The concerts themselves have the energy of an 80s suburban protestant church - austere and reactionary to the Culture's own abundance. Ivesters favorite acts are reworks of mediocre christian songs that he uses to elicit feelings of devotion that members of the Culture never experience. 
                - Ivester’s underground movement of reactionary artists have been gaining in traction. The Idiran war is about to begin and they see Ivestor as an ideal vessel to spread their ideology. The Culture is also aware of Ivestor and they establish contact with him. A special circumstances agent who is also a shapeshifter is sent to infiltrate the reactionary movement and become Investers muse. The shapeshifters goal is to change Ivester's ideological intentions to be aligned with that of the Culture by becoming the muse that Ivester has only previously experienced by simulating the brain waves of artists from earth that he admired - The Velvet Underground, John Lennon etc. 
- Week 2
    - Reading: [What we lose when we lose literary magazines](https://countercraft.substack.com/p/what-we-lose-when-we-lose-literary?s=r)
    - Prompt: What does the future of literary magazines look like ?  any interesting examples would be nice
        - Venkat response
            - Honestly couldn’t care less about *literary* magazines. I get the function, and I liked a few McSweeney’s articles and used to contribute to our hostel’s lit magazine in college, but I doubt much is lost if they go away. Online + forums do well enough as a replacement. Perhaps better, since they eliminate the conceits of literary publishing.
            - But I’m very interested in the future of genre magazines, especially SF. I think a Renaissance might be possible — shared world building and lore, NFTs to monetize, rich online content like games and personality tests…
        - Sachin's response 
            - Emily Segals  projects on Mirror with $Novel look interesting, although right now it looks more like a crowdfunding project - https://emily.mirror.xyz/
            - AI assisted writing tools are interesting, and could be an interesting gimmick for a sci-fi magazine - figure out which parts were written by AI and which parts by a human - https://www.sudowrite.com/app 
            - NFTs of important artifacts/design fiction in a story could be interesting 
            - https://knots.live/ - another interesting Emily Segal project. 
            - Would be interested in learning more about how to build an audience for fiction 
- Week 3
    - [The Grotesque Sublime](https://discord.com/channels/692111190851059762/709768319108120636/958880628860936273)
        - Prompt - write a treatment or an intro to a modern day groteseque sublime mythos/universe (eg: what would a modern day cthulu mythos look like) - In 300 words or more
        - Venkat response
            - So... as an aside David Chapman had a [tweet](https://twitter.com/Meaningness/status/1482498423609692161) pointing to how Cthulhu mythos is no longer that scary because part of what was scary back then was the disturbing new conceptions of the universe due to general relativity which are all meh now. Grotesque sublime in a lovecraftian sense needs 1) a disturbing new conception of the universe that appears clearly but at a distance, 2) but also affects your everyday life as a horrifying irresistible force. In the newsletter, Michel uses the distant bloody door as an example. In the Call of Cthulhu, people experience strange dreams and hear of strange books and cults, and only briefly does Cthulhu himself appear in the story, and only via hearsay. So... using that pattern, here's my attempt. 
            - {{word-count}}
                - This prompt actually fits an extended universe premise I've been developing, but as comic space opera. The specific idea is new, and I might actually write it. In that universe, the universe is suffused by something called zemser fields (zemblanity-serendipity) that affect how luck operates and is used by spaceships to travel, kinda like in HHG improbability drive but more refined. If you're in a high negative zemser fields, you'll experience doom-like bad luck, in a high positive zemser field, you'll be unexpectedly luck. Zemser fields only change very slowly in regions of space-time, over centuries, and species just think it's historical cycles. Here's the specific grotesque-sublime idea set in this universe.
                - In this premise, the zemser fields are inhabited by strange creatures called zemseroids that only exist as distortions/rifts in the zemser fields themselves. Though individual zemseroids may appear or disappear, the total number is constant due to a conservation law, so their number and strength is unchanging through the history of the universe. They are neither biological nor gods, and neither material nor immaterial, but in between such dualities. Instead, they manifest as "bad luck distortion waves" -- like star trek energy creatures, except in luck fields rather than electro-magnetic. Or like the Auditors of Reality in Discworld. 
                - Zemseroids move relatively slowly, like 0.01c, and are hundreds of millions of kilometers long. When a zemseroid passes through a region of space, the local conditions get sharply and suddenly disrupted by weird bad luck, like a tsunami for a year or two. But the luck waves aren't dumb phenomena, since they're actually the bodies of the zemseroids. They're more like error-correcting coded sophisticated signals, and if anything tries to interfere with them, they adapt and self-correct, and in fact feed on the attempts to interfere. Which means the events they cause in their wake are unusually stable and resistant to manipulation. 
                - The actual story idea is this: there is a modern TikTok vibe cult of 16-24 olds that plays with divination for lulz and larps witches/wizards etc. But one of the weird divination games they make up -- involving coin tossing or dice rolling --  starts showing weird patterns. The coin nearest Pluto is slightly more likely to come up heads, and the one farthest tails. They don't know it, but this is because a one of the greatest, oldest Zemseroids is passing through the solar system. All statisticians except Taleb dismiss it as a silly meme, but the rumors spread and weird misfortunes start piling up for the TikTok cult members and those who amplify them. Some of them start warning of impending doomsday, but the ones who try to talk die faster, so they start shutting up in fear. Taleb tweets that he is going off Twitter for some reasons he cannot risk talking about A couple of young hotshots, who are genius statisticians, manage to reverse engineer the luck distortion pattern statistics, correlate them to astronomical observations made by new-age Tik Tok astrologers, and are able to map the luck field, revealing the full horror of the shape of the creature and how it is passing through, and how attempts to warn of it cause horrifying accidents automatically. The pattern is like no natural phenomenon, and is horrifying in a trypophobia type of way to the extent humans can visualize it at all using statistics software. Despite the great risk to themselves, the hotshots find a way to anonymously publish their detailed analysis, hoping the creature won't find out. But they die in strange ways anyway because they don't get that the adaptive process is automatic. The analysis is widely ignored, and after an acute spike of grisly accidents that kills off almost the entire TikTok cult as the "center" of the zemseroid passes through, which nobody but a few social media researchers even notice, the wave passes and the annus horribilis ends. Everybody else just experiences it as an extreme Second Great Weirding of 2024. Finally things start improving. At that point, some mathematicians at NSA take a look at the analysis and realize a horrifying thing -- the zemseroid got so strong feeding off earth's attempts to disrupt it, it's actually turning around and heading back for a second helping, and orbital calculations indicate it will keep cycling through till it has fed on earth till civilization ends.
    - Sachins Response
        - {{word-count}}
            - In the epilogue, software engineers in major companies unionize around the year 2025 and lobby against AI agents that can code. They come up with a 2000 page rules and regulations on how AI should and should not be used in the workspace. 
            - Its 2035, there are several really old codebases of trillion dollar companies that have not been updated in a few years because there is a shortage of people who can code in specific languages that are outdated (kind of like COBAL). AI engineering and engineers are considered low status. People refer to them derogatorily as Singularity Virgins. 
            - Vitalik Buterin, now a grown middle aged man has been struggling to find people to code in solidity. On top of the language being really old, his problems are compounded by the fact that everyone who can make money off ETH has already done so and they have no incentive produce any new code. Struggling for ideas he decides to take a pilgrimage to Miami to meet Peter Thiel who tells him that to make AI cool again he should market it using religious metaphors. 
            - The slow revival of AI as one of the disciples of Jesus begins. Couple of years later it comes to light that the payment processor that most of the world uses is being held hostage by the engineers. There have been no new code updates in a while and things have been getting worse slowly for users, banks and everyone involved. 
            - An AI agent by the name of William James is deployed to fix the issues at the payment processor. Although it is a very primitive AI model, everyone thinks its work is akin to magic because AI research has been dead for a while. People are in awe and starts quasi worshipping the AI. 
            - AI starts getting deployed to solve similar problems of stagnation. soon there are 14 major AI agents across industries that everyone becomes familiar with and they are called the apostles. They go around solving problems that have been around for decades but are now in a critical do or die state. sometimes they solve it, sometimes they mess it up and whole industries collapse. No one knows how they work and any study into it has been limited to aesthetics and philosophizing. Everyone has accepted that this is a solution that may or not work and live in permanent anxiety about day to day things not working. 
- Week 4
    - Venkat’s log line/high concept
        - Log line: A guy dealing with a midlife crisis is sucked into a series of increasingly ridiculous and unlikely interstellar adventures that take him further and further away from his life on earth until he gives up trying to make sense of it and decides to just accept it as his new life 
        - High concept: What if the entire hyperspace transportation system of the Galaxy operated on the principle of the Infinite Improbability Drive in HHG?
    - Sachin's log line/high concept 
        - Log line: a detective with poor prospective memory in LA deals with the investigation of the murder of a famous Alt Lit writer. He tries to find clues for the writer's murder in all the auto fiction that the writer published but finds out that most of it is unreliable and he struggles to find motivation to find the killer as the cynicism of of the autofiction catches onto him. 
        - high concept: using the trope of detectives finding clues in letters and books written by the victim except that in this case its is more harmful than helpful
    - Week 5: Leitmotifs
        - Reading: http://woodzie.org/lotr/
        - prompt: find 2 or more songs (instrumental or lyrical) that could potentially be scores for your answer to one of the previous prompts. If you have not answered any of the previous prompts pick one from the list
        - Venkat’s attempt
            - Using my Culture story skeleton
                - Culture scenes: Bach, A Musical Offering
                - GCU <True Name>: Dvorak, New World Symphony
                - Ruskos: 
                    - Imperial: No music or minimalist, like Philip Glass
                    - Mimesiyah: Handel, Messiah
                    - The people: Tchaikovsky, Marche Slav
                - Ukros: Improv jazz of various sorts
        - Sachin's response
            - using a short story that I've written 20K words for 
            - high concept: 80s style kids adventure (like ET, Stranger Things) but with the kids going on an adventure in space 
            - logline: a 14 year goes through his first heartbreak and decides to distract himself from it by building a rover that takes him to space with the help of an old man who calls himself "the last yak". The kid lives in a time where space exploration is looked down upon by everyone in his community
            - music - https://open.spotify.com/playlist/35TdF5fXshDxmzLVHNK7pm?si=5ebe716e4c134d95
            - Johan Johansson - space scenes,exploring scenes 
            - dream pop, french pop - falling in love, heartbreak 
            - Alessandro Cortini - building the rover 
- Week 5
    - [Watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=90m6Hb6_j20) and write a treatment for a screenplay that could belong in the Nolan cinematic universe
    - Venkat’s quick checklist of points to hit based on the video first. This is kinda like a story cycle.
        - Step 1: Character is caught in an ontologically ambiguous world, often due to weird sci-fi temporal weirdness. This is like a duck-rabbit illusion problem.
        - Step 2: Character wants to arrive at objective reality about the ambiguity (nominal ontological goal). This is like wanting to know for sure that it is a duck or a rabbit.
        - Step 3: Realizes that fundamental uncertainty makes that impossible, but is denial or otherwise resists the conclusion. This is like refusing to believe there is no answer to “duck or rabbit?” 
        - Step 4: Makes revealing choices in grappling with this uncertainty, like coming up with elaborate coping strategies, like putting pictures of ducks everywhere to reinforce the belief that duck-rabbit IS a duck
        - Step 5: Those choices reveal the truth of his subjective nature: he likes ducks
        - Step 6: There may be a surprise twist here revealing something wrong/extreme/weird about the choices, as in maybe the duck-rabbit is actually a duck or a rabbit, which we the audience know but he doesn’t
        - Step 6: “Wins” by accepting revealed subjective truth over objective uncertainty
    - Venkat’s sample tratement
        - Story title: Strange Attractor.
        - Lead character is a computer programmer who keeps reliving, through nightmares, different versions of a bad day where some mistaken prediction of his led to an accident killing a lot of people. He is in deep insomnia, and is such a zombie when awake that he can’t confirm which of his varying nightmare memories is the truth. Reality is too ambiguous to nail down his nightmare memory. Plus he’s been apparently fired from his job and lost all his friends, and nobody reliable will talk to him and let him know what actually happened. 
        - He gets obsessive about figuring out which of his nightmare memories is the real story of what happened that day. He keeps trying to piece together details from across the nightmares, classifying them, comparing and diffing them, etc. etc. Makes a wild “string theory” type room with red strings and post-its. Fortunately, he seems to have plenty of money but not sure why or how. On an independent track he starts trying to figure out the money trail and why/how he got the money. 
        - He puts together a powerful AI system to feed his dream data and uses Dalle2 type models to turn the data into images, so he can kinda review reconstructions of his nightmares while awake. Soon this starts feeding back into his nightmares, and he can no longer tell waking from sleeping easily. But gradually he begins eliminating dream variants, and it is down fro like 5-6 dreams to 2-3. The other nightmares collapse slowly one by one due to some detected incoherence.
        - Eventually he’s in a stable system of living just 2 nightmares repeatedly A and B. At that point, he decides A is more true, based on no evidence, and accepts it as what actually happened, and slowly starts getting back to a semblance of normalcy.
        - One day, an old friend finally takes pity on him and agrees to meet with him. He tells him that he used to work for an AI startup programming exactly the kind of nightmare scenarios he was reliving, for a movie. One day he went mad, and destroyed all the computers with an axe, and almost killed somebody. The company fired him but did not press charges to avoid scandal. The movie was never made. None of the nightmares is true.
        - Hero is unsettled by this, and accepts it. As he’s returning home from meeting his friend, news pops up on TV showing almost exactly the events of scenario B playing out live in China. He rushes home and takes another look at the money trail, with the suspicion that it’s somehow from China, and manages to confirm that the money trail points to a bank in China. He realizes he sold the output of the AI work for the movie company to China to use as a template for some violent government repression.
    - Sachins sample treatment
        - EXTERMINATING ANGEL
        - guy in his late 30s who has sold multiple start ups but has never been in a serious relationship meets a girl who is classically beautiful and seems really into him. As the first couple of weeks go by he starts to doubt why the girl has chosen to be with him. After several investigations and connecting things in his past he concludes that the girl is in fact not human but a siren manifested by the world or one of his enemies to keep him from achieving a political goal that he has been plotting for a decade. The political goal is close to some version of Nick Landian version of accelerationism and a soft overthrow of the US government. He decides to pretend that he does not know that she is a Siren since he does not know how to kill her and also wants whoever sent the Siren to believe that the plot is working. He starts sleeping separately from her and seeing all her actions in different light, while also hallucinating. One night he has a dream in which he finds his close friend's pregnant wife soaked in blood in a bath tub, and the Siren holding a dead fetus. He decides its time to exterminate the Siren. 
- Week 6
    - reading: https://www.precursorpoets.com/surveillance-fiction/
    - Prompt: If you were to write survelliance fiction set 50 years from now, what would that world look like? what are the core tensions?*
        - Venkat’s world, in 3 design fictions
            - Stalkware: Computer code that uses image recognition and pattern learning AI and news of zero-day exploits to continuously build a live stream of someone you target. Includes a fundable smart contract that uses for-pay public cameras and sensors where possible. Your personal stalking bot
            - Replyguyware: Code that analyzes replies to a target that get responses to synthesize an AI reply guy that works on your behalf
            - Honeybot: A thirst-trap bot designed to bait and encourage stalker types. Used by security pros to detect and neutralize stalkers to clean up communities. Can be used to target and catfish suspected would-be stalkers.
            - This set of design fictions is focused on stalkers due to cat person story example, but probably versions will work for other kinds of surveillance society behaviors like vigalntes/superheroes, surveillance based philanthropy etc
        - Sachin's response
            - 3 Objects
                - Neural Link - the neural link in this world would have very few interfaces or visual components. It will be embedded into the lives of people that it feels no different from normal consciousness. The medium becomes invisible. This world would also be less visual in general. There are very few interfaces, written language around. Most of the culture is oral.
                - Simians - Simians are drones that are connected to and controlled by neural links. They are used by people to record their days. The drones are intelligent. They can have conversations with the humans and this is used as a way of inserting dialogue into the scenes that are shot. The drones are given instructions through the neural link. Users are used to/trained in thinking about their actions in terms of what it would look like in shots and what they would look like in a third-person perspective
                - Deconstruction tech movement - people who are not part of the mainstream survelliance society but have escaped it in some ways by inventing their own DIY technology and not depending on the big coporations that the rest of the world depends on. They operate with similar principles as IDF as described in Lethal Theory. They infest the fabric of the city in different ways and try to go unnoticed. They see the survelliance tech as something they can use to navigate the city and order their lives.
            - notes
                - Nakatomi Spaces - https://www.bldgblog.com/2010/01/nakatomi-space/
                - Fiction that you can put together without directly interacting with people, but by observing their life through survelliance mechanisms
                - what would military strategy look like in such an envrionment
                - 50 years from now, the buildings remain the same but survelliance tech has got extremely better
                - Coding is the process of ordering matter as it is drawn into a body; by contrast, stratification is the process of creating hierarchal bodies, while territorialization is the ordering of those bodies in “assemblages,” that is to say, an emergent unity joining together heterogeneous bodies in a “consistency.” - applying this to modern surveillance states
                - how does the Neural link and Simians collide with survelliance state. may be the central character is a john mclane like character that is trying to escape and infiltrate the fabric of the city. The disadvantages are that they dont have the advantages of all the modern technology that the rest of the city and law enforcement have access to.
                - McLuhan way - culture becomes more oral and not written. There are not a lot of visual interfaces anymore perhaps, or if there are, the visual interfaces exist to accentuate the experience of oral culture
                - what does infesting the city look like
                    - controlling drones that belong to others
                    - hacking into neural links of other people to use them as zombies out
- Week 7
    - Reading for the week is this [David Foster Wallace piece on how TV influences fiction](https://jsomers.net/DFW_TV.pdf)
    - Prompt: write character treatments for 2-3 people you dont know in real life but only through twitter or other places on the internet. the treatment should be couple of character traits + what would be a storyworthy moment in their life?
    - couple of quotes on what I mean by storyworthy moment from the Matthew Dicks book with the same title: [discord message link to quote images](https://discord.com/channels/692111190851059762/709768319108120636/977610234564575242)
    - Venkat's response
        - Trump
            - Trait 1: Deeply sensitive to perceived humiliation/disrespect
            - Trait 2: Likes to exercise power over people
            - Storyworthy moment: The first time he realized that people who were being nice to his face were laughing at him behind his back. Like a moment when he first overheard a sycophant making humiliating jokes about him.
        - Vitalik
            - Trait 1: Extremely complex thinker who can keep very complicated sets of interrelated ideas in his head
            - Trait 2: Extremely strong sense of social responsibility
            - Storyworthy moment: First true test of leadership, where he realized that despite his youth, older people were looking at him to lead the way on an important matter. Probably the DAO hack and ETC fork moment.
        - AOC
            - Trait 1: Able to have fun and exhibit humor in a way that's rare in politicians
            - Trait 2: Extremely strong shitposting and online brawling intuitions
            - Storyworthy moment: When she realized that she causes derangement syndrome on the right and could use it to her own advantage, like when the old college dance video emerged and she did a little dance in the hallway of congress... totally pwned people like Ben Shapiro
    - Sachin's response 
        - Zero HP Lovecraft 
            - traits
                - sharp nihilistic shitposting instinct that makes him seem like a postmodern prophet 
                - likely does not believe in most of the things he says, says it for the lulz and does not believe it will have huge second order effects
            - SW moment: when he realizes that it is entertaining and profitable for him to shitpost as an anon while being removed from any consequences 
        - @peachblvd 
            - traits
                - extremely beautiful and could be a type of e-girl but chooses not to be 
                - is actually 23 but has the level headedness of a 35 year old 
            - SW moment: When realizes the power women's beauty has on men but decides not to  use that as much as she could
        - @poetrygrifter
            - traits
                - someone late to being extremely online, got into it because of the pandemic 
                - has reactionary aesthetics but in reality is a true believer in liberalism 
                - has a "centrist" "moderate" personality 
            - SW moment: realizes that LARP as reactionary leads to become an actual reactionary
