- A bunch of us (Maier, Sachin, Anuraj, Grigori, Venkat) jumped on a call with Rafa, who's been hanging out with us on and off over the last year and is currently involved with Mirror and working on making that into a DAO. Mirror provides a lot of Web3 tooling, and the user community is kinda DAOish, but the company behind it is not (yet) and he's involved in making that a DAO too if I understand correctly. We're in a "token race" to win a WRITE token which can be burned to get a subdomain to host a YC publication on Mirror on this Wednesday, which will also get us some governance/voting rights or something (bit foggy on how this works). On our end, Venkat shared the following state of play: we're in discovery mode, and will get a macro idea of where we might be headed with all this after the annual meeting when we discuss it, and in the meantime there is mission discussion going on in soap-box. At a tactical level, right now Sachin and Venkat are exploring the tools  and acquiring a basic literacy with NFTs, DAOs, tokens and stuff. Whether or not we win a token, we can still use all the tools of Mirror for publishing, including minting NFTs, doing split contracts etc. Our immediate tactical goal is to try and do the online-governance 6-pager as an NFT, and going forward, explore it for Astonishing Stories (which may turn into Astonishing Objects), and Yak Rover tokens. At a macro/strategy level, Mirror is trying to go from product to community, and help build a "mesh" of DAOs, and is interested in collaborating with YC in various ways. Ideas suggested including the next online governance 6-pager being aligned with Mirror's needs/interests with some potential for funding from their treasury. If we do go down the DAO path, we might end up holding governance tokens for Mirror's DAO and vice versa, and similarly with other adjacent DAOs. It's like a network of "board memberships."
- Last point that came up was: Rafa suggested we look at Creator Cabins , BLVKHVND and Seed Club for good case studies/ideas of effective DAOs
