- Title: Fermi Gym
- Contributors: Open to all.
- Photo: Let's use this photo with citation, and swap it out for a public domain one if anyone complains. Since it is a nonprofit, I doubt they'll care. https://www.atomicheritage.org/article/manhattan-project-spotlight-enrico-fermi
- Description: How many trees are there on Earth? What is the weight of the atmosphere? How tall can a mountain be? What is the total length of DNA in a human cell? Questions like this are perfect fodder for the art of __Fermi estimation__, the cultivated skill of posing and answering arbitrary quantitative questions using a variety of rough and ready estimation, assumption, and approximation techniques, informed guesswork, tasteful googling, and high-school mathematics. The art is named for physicist Enrico Fermi, who was famously skilled at it. A good introductory text is __The Art of Estimation in Science and Engineering__ by Sanjoy Mahajan (recommended, but not required reading if you'd like to join us).
- The Fermi Gym at the Yak Collective is an ongoing activity in our Discord (in the #fermi-gym channel) where we take turns posing weekly Fermi estimation problems for each other. The goal is to steadily improve our skills, and develop a better, and more quantitative appreciation for the universe we live in. The group grew out of a series of video sessions conducted by James Giamonna in early 2022. The format is mostly based on asynchronous discussion (including use of a Discord bot to manage the actual problem solving), but with periodic video calls (approximately once every 2 months) to review recent gym sessions and prepare for future problem-solving themes. Join the Yak Collective and drop by the #fermi-gym channel in our Discord to learn more and join in.
