-  
    - 1) Communal political decision-making 
    - 
- 
-  Kernel 2040 Scenario
    - information presentation + VR demonstration of a community development (health, transport, housing etc etc) that is part of a local political representative's policy plan. during information session + within the VR demonstration the constituents have their neuromonitoring helmets strapped on. at the different stages of the pres/VR demo signals are picked up from the neuromonitoring device. these are then recorded and categorised (as qualitative feedback would be in today's consultation session) and are then explored within the consultation session - constituents can be invited to explore the readings (will the constituents be able to interpret the readings/will there be surprises e.g. when I heard about this project I was excited about XX but my reading shows contrary XXX [perhaps some more instinctive biological resistance, such as not having really considered the pollutant effects but my brain seems to be doing so] and now I must examine this) 
    - political representatives use the information to help improve the policy process by applying it to how the development will proceed 
    - Overall the expectation is that Kernel could help create a political participation process with greater depth and understanding between constituents and political decision-making on communal levels
    - 2) Fine-Tuning Voting
        - Service to understand how exactly you vote for candidates - most political scientists see votes as based on satisfying value/material needs which would activate an executive control region of the brain that wants to achieve certain goals but it is also acknowledged that we (disproportionately) judge candidates on their physical attractiveness which would be processed in limbic part of brain - understanding this information in a quantified way could help voters fine-tune their preferences/desired focus (power ways Attebyte control - https://medium.com/future-literacy/changing-our-minds-one-attebyte-at-a-time-764692703636)
- Ideas
- 3)Neuro-Manifestos 
    - Parties and political reps building out manifestos for people/communities by amalgamating neuro-information from a wide range of constituents - defining the group and categorising sentiment into something that becomes policy-relevant 
    - 4) Health-tracking 
        - Helping health/social services understand earlier who might be vulnerable e.g. in the UK autism is largely detected (if at all) some years into early schooling - more precision on this could help build a more effective policies to support neurodiverse individuals (where will their Attebyte usage prove most helpful right away and how can public policy help?) 
        - 5) Solving Opposition 
            - Neuro-dialogue between those with opposing political views - lots of signs that political belief is a product of emotion - wondering if neuroproducts could help us move beyond communicating political arguments and more towards how those arguments were formed...House of Commons debate with Kernel helmets strapped on...
- 
- Notes
- TECHNICAL CONSTRAINTS:
- Expose a number individuals to a future scenario on a sensory level and gain precise/categorised insight into their sentiment towards this scenario - which can then be fleshed out further discursively in a group setting
- IMPOSSIBILITIES: 
- Barrett emotions theory [Policing application](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.01946/full)
    - The brain as a predictive model - theory of constructed emotion - citizen predictions of political growth that takes place around them to inform that growth when political leaders make decisions
    - "[brain] anticipates these inputs by constructing a model of its body in the world"
    - "a brain constructs an internal predictive model of the world and this model includes its own body"
    - "because predictions are context-bound and the contexts in which humans find themselves can vary widely, we expect there to be substantial variability across instances of experience"
- METAPHORS: 
- @Nikhil Deshmukh (US Pacific) as in use Kernel to reinforce constituency cohesion?
- @Kannen R (BST) One method for political depolarization is for someone in the in-group to leverage their identity to disseminate polarizing news or ideas. The language they use varies even though the news is the same. (Intersection with speech ways). Kernel can be used in an n-of-many way to test messaging on a representative subsample of people before broadcast.
- so I guess it would be to reinforce social cohesion broadly, not of individual constituencies
- It's a form of "neuro-objectivity" where one would disseminate information in the most neutral way possible, using Kernel to measure neutrality of outcome.
- @Nikhil Deshmukh (US Pacific) Feels like speech ways does link up a lot with power ways esp around reducing political polarisation (also improving engagement)..how far do you think making non-verbal comms legible could go in finding common neuroobjective ground between opposing groups?
- To achieve neuroobjectivity, one would have to modulate non-verbal comms specifically for each neurotribe of interest. Legibility may not be sufficient. I think it will take real-time synthesis of affect and tone. Instead of subtitling emotions, you translate/overdub the content for each neurotribe.
- One thing that struck during the call was the comment about how neural data has intrinsic value, especially if they control the data and ecosystem. Do the brains that create the data have an ownership stake in that value? Or is this neuro-extraction, where brainwaves are the new oil?
- 1
- n=many is to be understood primarily as “run an idea on n~100-1000 brains, generalize results to n~=billions”. @Joseph Fridman (Boston) nailed the high risk part of this hypothesis... that there are generalizations that usefully makes that leap.(edited)
- Though 20y out we might have direct n=billions with live networking too. The pathway goes from n=sample of population to n=population itself
- So in some key ways, the “product” in the initial phase is really the data rather than the devices. Whether offered NaaS or via small market device sales
- Though 20y out we might have direct n=billions with live networking too. The pathway goes from n=sample of population to n=population itself
- Should Neuroscience influence policy?https://reader.elsevier.com/reader/sd/pii/S1364661312001714?token=9913C8B7148FBF6F8B9FF1725A6D20E39EC046BACAD315D67CA9B54C0F4C4CF973DE1F7588882E37A37248CB9CB17EAF 
-  The structure of the shared external environment shapes our neural responses and behavior.Some aspects of the environment are determined by the physical environment. Otheraspects, however, are determined by a community of individuals, who together establish ashared set of rules (behaviors) that shape and constrain the perception and actions of eachmember of the group. For example, human infants undergo a period of perceptual narrowingwhereby younger infants can discriminate between social signals from multiple species andcultures, but older infants fine-tune their perception following experience with their nativesocial signals [76]. Coupled brains can create new phenomena, including verbal and non-verbal communication systems and interpersonal social institutions that could not haveemerged in species that lack brain-to-brain coupling. Thus, just as the Copernican revolutionsimplified rather than complicated our understanding of the physical world, embracingbrain-to-brain coupling as a reference system may simplify our understanding of behaviorby illuminating new forces that operate among individuals and shape our social world"
- Ryota Kanai - Political Orientations Are Correlated with Brain Structure in Young Adults
- Beyond just this example, consilience is important for the process of policy
making more broadly speaking. Policy making, implementation, and change are costly endeavors, and it is in everyone’s best interest that policies are effective from their inception. Consilience is a helpful predictor of efficacy; if the results of many studies using many different methods point to the same finding, policies based on this finding are likely a better investment than policies based on findings without converging support. Given that policy makers are looking for research findings that will lead to policies that will give them the most bang for their policy buck, it is more likely that findings that have reached consilience (e.g., behavioral and neuroscience studies showing the same effects) will be implemented into policy. As such, from a scientist’s perspective, striving for behavioral and neuralconsilience increases the chances that research findings will find their way into effective public policy.
- Idea Tightening
- 
- 30/5 Idea Tightening
- 1) Voter decision-making: Kernel to quantify our voting decision-making choices - information can then modulate the way we select political candidates at local/national/international level. If our brains show us that we're selecting candidates primarily on attractiveness (75%), rather than some material-orientated purpose(25%), can we use that info & shift the quantities we're allocating to our political choices?
- 2) Political polarisation: actively mitigate the spread of polarising information by testing neutrality of political messages on different neurotribes and adjusting language to reduce inflammation when communicating  - seeking 'Neuro-objectivity' - same political story different comms 
- 3) Policy simulation: Simulate political futures/policy intentions through VR and use Kernel to measure citizen compatibility with that future. How will this smart city interact with mobility capacity of the elderly in the neighbourhood? How might this building alter the ability of a community to build relations? 
- Idea 
- 
- 
- Democracy is being challenged, with people left behind at an increased rate and a vote every five years not quite enough to balance out social/material disillusionment.
- Citizen-engagement sessions are still the primary form of citizen input into policy decisions. These are largely discussion/consensus based with qualitative feedback recorded and used for policy design.
- There is an opportunity to refine this political process through neurological analysis at the scale Kernel is aiming to provide. N=many is implicit given the ‘focus group’ set up of citizen-engagement session and the long-term relevance of their findings for wider policy-making/policy-transfer.
- Particularly useful will be learning how people will actually choose to engage with policies. From regulations that do nothing but create red-tape, through to community services that never get used, public money/effort is constantly being wasted. All these policies would have had civic-engagement sessions to help design them, but as we know people don’t always do/feel what they say. Kernel can help refine this important political practice and make it more effective, strengthening its purpose as a democratic tool. This won’t just be done by simply measuring sentiment, but providing what Genevsky et al. (2017) call a ‘Neuroforecasting’ function (https://www.jneurosci.org/content/37/36/8625). They show how activity in the nucleus accumbens and medial prefontal cortex can predict individual financial choices, with the nucleus accumbens activity generalizable to aggregate market outcomes later on. The hope is that this nascent field will improve and by 2040 analogous policy-related choices made by citizens and long-term aggregate policy outcomes could be forecasted with this kind of analysis (indeed this is fundamentally what many citizen engagement processes try to assess, but discursively).
- As virtual reality develops, there will be an exciting collision between electoral brain analysis and the ability to simulate the futures being proposed by policy (mainly interesting for large scale things like hospitals/schools/residences - https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3209281.3209409?download=true). The refinement between people and policy can grow as we understand through simulation and simultaneous brainscanning, how for instance children with autism will react to this particular school environment/curriculum or how physically/mentally comfortable the elderly will be in a planned healthcare facility (see Samanez-Larkin and Knutson (2015) on using the Affect-Integration-Motivation framework to navigate the ageing brain https://www.jneurosci.org/content/37/36/8625#ref-36).
- The neurodata will inform the creation and development of policy at several levels, deepening the democratic connection between voters and the policies that actually shape and impact their lives.
