- for the march 9 [[Yak Rover]] meeting
- two questions:
    - (a) what is a rover?
    - (b) what do __we__ think is a rover and what we expect of it?
- paper on rover limits and sizes, skip to page 33 if you want::
    - https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1706/1706.05356.pdf
- some dimensions of rover-space::
    - life: 1 min .. 1Khours
        - Venera lasted a couple of hours I believe, before it melted on Venus
    - attention: continuous .. intermittent .. events
    - coverage ability: 0% .. 100%
    - mass delivered: 0g .. 1T
    - power: local .. remote
    - brain: local .. remote
    - speed: mm/day .. km/hour
    - motor complexity: 0 .. 1 .. 20 
    - range: 1m .. 1000km
    - location: below, on, above ground
    - payload: none/replacable/dedicated/general
    - ability to interact with world: "leave only footprints" .. "earth moving"
    - autonomy: "does what it is told" .. "specific goal" .. "self-goal"
    - this list ignores social and ecosystem dimensions!
- vr:
    - it has to move
    - roverness decision is based relative to other things
    - in other modes of operation a rover may not be one
    - has some ability to operate in "extreme" environment in some sense
- e:
    - mobility
    - platform - a mobile base that provides mobility service - even a roomba
- g:
    - does whatever you want it to do
    - two component:
        - the part that moves 
        - the part which supports and can be stationary
    - now you can do a cost-benefit analysis
- j:
    - predicate devices
    - what problems are solved
    - answer questions with no answers - so gather data
    - needs main components:
        - thrust in a medium
        - manipulation element is optional
        - data collection/observation is not optional
        - semi/pseudo autonomous capability - beyond teleoperation limit of 200ms
- vh:
    - mobility is defining
    - rest depends on mission complexity
    - three part systems too:
        - base station
        - rover
        - rover's rover
        - so multiple things for different parts of the mission
    - need new words for components of a  mission that uses robots
- a:
    - mobility and perception are key and equally important
    - just being there is a probe, not a rover
- a:
    - rover needs to be fun
    - rover should construct something or get data
- vh:
    - 10 year perspective
        - library of cots components for space rovers
        - LEO
    - learning experience
    - build remotely accessible robot lab
    - build up and will get to a  custom robot build 
- j:
    - vibe i sense: tooling and infrastructure
    - cube SAT in rover form
- vg:
    - 10 year horizon
    - avoid economic mode - the money side
    - learning should compound and push technological limit
        - by 3 years not a toy
        - by 7 years beyond what is just a way of making money
- g:
    - look into the future by creating it. but see multiple
        - with mars infrastructure
        - or without
    - something that does __not__ compete with NASA, not now not ever
- e:
    - take advantage (explore?) of adjacent opportunities forming in space
    - provide infrastructure in space. rover is part of that infrastructure
    - cost economics and granularity may indeed be able to compete with NASA, due to YC agility
    - 3 year horizon is good. goals are sure to change after
    - looking to build growing systems
- some rover (?) examples::
    - for each one:
        - (a) on a scale of {**not a rover**(1) .. {**the roviest rover ever**(5)}}
        - (b) what is its most missing feature to be more like what you feel a rover should be
    - (1) a legged rover. about 1 meter in diameter. 2 manipulator arms. weight 20 kg. local processor. uses solar panels/antenna to receive energy form an orbiter.
    - (2) a 20kg wheeled rover set in a field. the field is surrounded/on one or two sides by power transmitters (such as solar reflectors) and rover needs to stay within range.
    - (3) a motorized powered rolling ball. about 50 cm in diameter. no external payload. a few tools that can stick out of ports. fuel powered, at a central depot.
    - (4) tracked rover with single motor (forward mode and reverse/turn mode). nuclear powered.
    - (5) wind-blown tumble weed. includes shelter-in-place function. powered by local deposits of perchlorate and some solar power. "wakes up" when wind is favorable. size 5-500 cm
    - (6) a vortex formed of dust and possibly metal particles. sensing is remote using a scanning laser beam and a camera that collects reflections off the vortex. power may also be provided by remote. can be generated by a base station or existing vortexes utilized.
    - solar powered hot air balloon. weight 10kg.
    - 300cm long snake/millipede rover. travels under the sand. powered by solar when it reaches surface.
- some possible rover missions::
    - transport
    - general explore
    - prospecting
    - mining
    - inspection
    - search & rescue
    - earth moving
    - building
    - guides
- [[rover simulation]]
