- __Still in progress. -__ [Alex Wagner](<../../Alex Wagner.md>)
- Pre-read for today's online governance call: Our rudimentary starter page for governing client projects, based on precedents we are setting with the first one (neurofuturama) https://roamresearch.com/#/app/ArtOfGig/page/nfdkLkuk1
- 
- ## Round-Robin:
- [Chris R](<../../Chris R.md>):
- [Christian Bacher](<../../Christian Bacher.md>):
    - What about delivering a certain level of quality? Venkat responded: Feedback + feed forward, try the project method/product in an unpaid run before entering the paid space (examples: Don't waste the reboot --> Neurofuturama)
- [David McDougall](<../../David McDougall.md>): 
    - [David McDougall](<../../David McDougall.md>): Interesting to consider space between "Yak projects" and "personal projects"
    - Agrees that the client doc works as "principles" - and it is a virtue that it is not too codified and "rules-based"
    - a textual comment via Discord,in response to [Grigori Milov](<../../Grigori Milov.md>): "@Grigori Milov (GMT+3) brings up a good point - the Yak branding has client-facing power in the sales/pitch process. How/when can we look for Yak projects (resourcing tbc) vs just bringing individual projects to Yak?"
- [Drew Schorno](<../../Drew Schorno.md>):
    - Brief could be applied to non-paid projects as well.
- [Greg Kramer](<../../Greg Kramer.md>): [Inaudible]
- [Grigori Milov](<../../Grigori Milov.md>): 
    - Concern: "I have a client that's a little bit to big for me. I could use some help from the collective. I would be a little bit worried that individual contributors might target the same client.
    - "It's important to know, when I am talking to a client, that I know my role in talking to a client."
- [John Grant](<../../John Grant.md>):
    - Two points:
        - 1. Relating to the last clause, how dispute resolution would work. Protecting the reputation 
        - 2. Raising funds to create a legal entity for Yak Collective.
- [Johnicholas Hines](<../../Johnicholas Hines.md>)
    - Wondered if a "no-flake bond" would be useful – you put up money to be part of a team. If you deliver, you get your escrow back and project fee. If you flake, you forfeit to escrow to team.
- [Jordan Peacock](<../../Jordan Peacock.md>)
    - To Gregory: you might build relationships one-on-one with YC members.
- [Luke Butler](<../../Luke Butler.md>)
    - Mentioned article about "The future of work being distributed". __Will add here if Luke can source - Alex__
- [Sachin Benny](<../../Sachin Benny.md>)
    - "Yak coins" would be interesting.
- [Scott Garlinger](<../../Scott Garlinger.md>)
    - Curious about how the experimental nature of the paid projects map onto YC governance. 
    - [Suwaythan Nahaganeshan](<../../Suwaythan Nahaganeshan.md>)
- [Thomas Verhagen](<../../Thomas Verhagen.md>) - [inaudible]
- [Vinay Débrou](<../../Vinay Débrou.md>)
- To me, a lot of conversation around YC official projects turn into conversations and sub-collabs.
- [Jordan Peacock](<../../Jordan Peacock.md>)
    - **Some notes**
        - "A Yak Collective Compact"
    - Talking about responsibility to monitor for violations, and deciding what to do. "What does that decision look like? And how is that community?"
        - Is there a commitment to transparency? Is there a commitment to letting Yaks know about paid projects?
- [hershpat](<../../hershpat.md>)
- How will governance towards Yak projects work from country-to-country?
- [Venkatesh Rao](<../../Venkatesh Rao.md>)
    - YC doesn't mitigate risks you don't already have as an indie consultant. What it does do is serve as an amplifier to connect and source back-end brainpower. __Paraphrasing here. - Alex__
- Only do subcontracts over national borders to mitigate counterparty risk of hiring international contracts.
    - "We try to make sure this doesn't happen."
- [Jordan Peacock](<../../Jordan Peacock.md>)
- YC operating on a community-model/trust. 
- [Venkatesh Rao](<../../Venkatesh Rao.md>)
    - Possible 360-review process per project, report publicly available after project wraps.
- Going for implicit over explicit guidelines here.
- [Christian Bacher](<../../Christian Bacher.md>)
- "How do we ensure a certain level of quality?"
- [Venkatesh Rao](<../../Venkatesh Rao.md>)
    - **Prefer "feed-forward" over feedback.**
    - We trial people and processes on unpaid projects. "We now trust it enough that we can use it on this Neurofuturama project."
    - Gatekeeping criteria for shipping
        - Project coordinators required to meet with two people who are not on the project. They qa the project thus far and decide whether to ship or not.
    - Bias against formal mechanisms. 
- [Jordan Peacock](<../../Jordan Peacock.md>)
    - With regards to qa, ad hoc and more explicitly-declared teams informally green-light ideas and deliverables. Paraphrasing here
- [David McDougall](<../../David McDougall.md>)
    - Yak is equipped to do inbound, but "because we don't really exist, we currently cannot do outbound. Something to think about at a later date."

# Backlinks
## [Governance Meetings Minutes](<Governance Meetings Minutes.md>)
- [YC Governance Chat Minutes – 05/22/2020](<../../YC Governance Chat Minutes – 05/22/2020.md>)

